<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <title>Children Act 1989 (c. 41)</title>
    <meta name="DC.Date.Modified" scheme="W3CDTF" content="2025-02-25"/>
    <meta name="DC.Date.Valid" scheme="W3CDTF" content="2025-02-24"/>
    <style type="text/css" media="screen, print">@import "../styles/legislation.css";@import "../styles/primarylegislation.css";</style>
  </head>
  <body>
    <div class="LegSnippet">
      <a name="content"/>
      <div class="DocContainer">
        <div class="LegClearFix LegPrelims">
          <h1 class="LegTitle">Children Act 1989 (c. 41)</h1>
          <h1 class="LegNo">1989 CHAPTER 41</h1>
          <p class="LegLongTitle">An Act to reform the law relating to children; to provide for local authority services for children in need and others; to amend the law with respect to children’s homes, community homes, voluntary homes and voluntary organisations; to make provision with respect to fostering, child minding and day care for young children and adoption; and for connected purposes.</p>
          <p class="LegDateOfEnactment">[16th November 1989]</p>
          <a class="LegAnchorID" id="Legislation-Preamble"/>
          <div class="LegEnactingText">
            <p class="LegText">Be it enacted by the Queen’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—
</p>
          </div>
        </div>
        <a class="LegAnchorID" id="part-I"/><div class="LegClearPart"/><h2 class="LegPartFirst"><span class="LegPartNo">Part I<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span><span class="LegPartTitle"> Introductory</span></h2><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-1"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">1</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst"> Welfare of the child.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-1-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">When a court determines any question with respect to—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-1-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the upbringing of a child; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-1-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the administration of a child’s property or the application of any income arising from it,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">the child’s welfare shall be the court’s paramount consideration.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-1-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In any proceedings in which any question with respect to the upbringing of a child arises, the court shall have regard to the general principle that any delay in determining the question is likely to prejudice the welfare of the child.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-1-2A"><span class="LegAddition">(2A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A court, in the circumstances mentioned in subsection (4)(a) or (7), is as respects each parent within subsection (6)(a) to presume, unless the contrary is shown, that involvement of that parent in the life of the child concerned will further the child's welfare.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-1-2B"><span class="LegAddition">(2B)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">In subsection (2A) “</span><span class="LegTerm"><span class="LegAddition">involvement</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” means involvement of some kind, either direct or indirect, but not any particular division of a child's time.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-1-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In the circumstances mentioned in subsection (4), a court shall have regard in particular to—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-1-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the ascertainable wishes and feelings of the child concerned (considered in the light of his age and understanding);</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-1-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">his physical, emotional and educational needs;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-1-3-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the likely effect on him of any change in his circumstances;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-1-3-d">(d)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">his age, sex, background and any characteristics of his which the court considers relevant;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-1-3-e">(e)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any harm which he has suffered or is at risk of suffering;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-1-3-f">(f)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">how capable each of his parents, and any other person in relation to whom the court considers the question to be relevant, is of meeting his needs;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-1-3-g">(g)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the range of powers available to the court under this Act in the proceedings in question.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-1-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The circumstances are that—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-1-4-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the court is considering whether to make, vary or discharge a section 8 order, and the making, variation or discharge of the order is opposed by any party to the proceedings; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-1-4-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the court is considering whether to make, vary or discharge <span class="LegAddition">a special guardianship order or</span> an order under Part IV.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-1-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a court is considering whether or not to make one or more orders under this Act with respect to a child, it shall not make the order or any of the orders unless it considers that doing so would be better for the child than making no order at all.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-1-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">In subsection (2A) “</span><span class="LegTerm"><span class="LegAddition">parent</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” means parent of the child concerned; and, for the purposes of that subsection, a parent of the child concerned—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-1-6-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">is within this paragraph if that parent can be involved in the child's life in a way that does not put the child at risk of suffering harm; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-1-6-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">is to be treated as being within paragraph (a) unless there is some evidence before the court in the particular proceedings to suggest that involvement of that parent in the child's life would put the child at risk of suffering harm whatever the form of the involvement.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-1-7"><span class="LegAddition">(7)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The circumstances referred to are that the court is considering whether to make an order under section 4(1)(c) or (2A) or 4ZA(1)(c) or (5) (parental responsibility of parent other than mother).</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-2"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">2</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Parental responsibility for children.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-2-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a child’s father and mother were married to <span class="LegAddition">, or civil partners of,</span> each other at the time of his birth, they shall each have parental responsibility for the child.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-2-1A"><span class="LegAddition">(1A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where a child—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-2-1A-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">has a parent by virtue of section 42 of the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 2008; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-2-1A-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">has a parent by virtue of section 43 of that Act and is a person to whom section 1(3) of the Family Law Reform Act 1987 applies,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">the child's mother and the other parent shall each have parental responsibility for the child.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-2-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where a child’s father and mother were not married to </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">, or civil partners of,</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> each other at the time of his birth—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-2-2-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the mother shall have parental responsibility for the child;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-2-2-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the father </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">shall have parental responsibility for the child if he has acquired it (and has not ceased to have it)</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> in accordance with the provisions of this Act.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-2-2A"><span class="LegAddition">(2A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where a child has a parent by virtue of section 43 of the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 2008 and is not a person to whom section 1(3) of the Family Law Reform Act 1987 applies—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-2-2A-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the mother shall have parental responsibility for the child;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-2-2A-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the other parent shall have parental responsibility for the child if she has acquired it (and has not ceased to have it) in accordance with the provisions of this Act.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-2-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">References in this Act to a child whose father and mother were, or (as the case may be) were not, married to <span class="LegAddition">, or civil partners of,</span> each other at the time of his birth must be read with section 1 of the Family Law Reform Act 1987 (which extends their meaning).</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-2-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The rule of law that a father is the natural guardian of his legitimate child is abolished.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-2-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">More than one person may have parental responsibility for the same child at the same time.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-2-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A person who has parental responsibility for a child at any time shall not cease to have that responsibility solely because some other person subsequently acquires parental responsibility for the child.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-2-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where more than one person has parental responsibility for a child, each of them may act alone and without the other (or others) in meeting that responsibility; but nothing in this Part shall be taken to affect the operation of any enactment which requires the consent of more than one person in a matter affecting the child.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-2-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The fact that a person has parental responsibility for a child shall not entitle him to act in any way which would be incompatible with any order made with respect to the child under this Act.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-2-9">(9)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A person who has parental responsibility for a child may not surrender or transfer any part of that responsibility to another but may arrange for some or all of it to be met by one or more persons acting on his behalf.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-2-10">(10)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The person with whom any such arrangement is made may himself be a person who already has parental responsibility for the child concerned.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-2-11">(11)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The making of any such arrangement shall not affect any liability of the person making it which may arise from any failure to meet any part of his parental responsibility for the child concerned.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-3"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">3</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Meaning of “parental responsibility”.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-3-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In this Act “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-parental-responsibility">parental responsibility</span>” means all the rights, duties, powers, responsibilities and authority which by law a parent of a child has in relation to the child and his property.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-3-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">It also includes the rights, powers and duties which a guardian of the child’s estate (appointed, before the commencement of section 5, to act generally) would have had in relation to the child and his property.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-3-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The rights referred to in subsection (2) include, in particular, the right of the guardian to receive or recover in his own name, for the benefit of the child, property of whatever description and wherever situated which the child is entitled to receive or recover.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-3-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The fact that a person has, or does not have, parental responsibility for a child shall not affect—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-3-4-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any obligation which he may have in relation to the child (such as a statutory duty to maintain the child); or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-3-4-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any rights which, in the event of the child’s death, he (or any other person) may have in relation to the child’s property.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-3-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A person who—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-3-5-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">does not have parental responsibility for a particular child; but</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-3-5-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">has care of the child,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">may (subject to the provisions of this Act) do what is reasonable in all the circumstances of the case for the purpose of safeguarding or promoting the child’s welfare.
</p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-4"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">4</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Acquisition of parental responsibility by father.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a child’s father and mother were not married to <span class="LegAddition">, or civil partners of,</span> each other at the time of his birth <span class="LegAddition">, the father shall acquire parental responsibility for the child if—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4-1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">he becomes registered as the child’s father under any of the enactments specified in subsection (1A);</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4-1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">he and the child’s mother make an agreement (a “</span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-parental-responsibility-agreement"><span class="LegAddition">parental responsibility agreement</span></span><span class="LegAddition">”) providing for him to have parental responsibility for the child; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4-1-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the court, on his application, orders that he shall have parental responsibility for the child.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4-1A"><span class="LegAddition">(1A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The enactments referred to in subsection (1)(a) are—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4-1A-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of section 10(1) and of section 10A(1) of the Births and Deaths Registration Act 1953;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4-1A-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">paragraphs (a), (b)(i) and (c) of section 18(1), and sections 18(2)(b) and 20(1)(a) of the Registration of Births, Deaths and Marriages (Scotland) Act 1965; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4-1A-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">sub-paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Article 14(3) of the Births and Deaths Registration (Northern Ireland) Order 1976.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4-1B"><span class="LegAddition">(1B)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> may by order amend subsection (1A) so as to add further enactments to the list in that subsection.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">No parental responsibility agreement shall have effect for the purposes of this Act unless—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">it is made in the form prescribed by regulations made by the Lord Chancellor; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">where regulations are made by the Lord Chancellor prescribing the manner in which such agreements must be recorded, it is recorded in the prescribed manner.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4-2A"><span class="LegAddition">(2A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A person who has acquired parental responsibility under subsection (1) shall cease to have that responsibility only if the court so orders.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The court may make an order under subsection (2A) on the application—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4-3-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">of any person who has parental responsibility for the child; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4-3-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">with the leave of the court, of the child himself,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">subject, in the case of parental responsibility acquired under subsection (1)(c), to section 12(4).</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The court may only grant leave under subsection (3)(b) if it is satisfied that the child has sufficient understanding to make the proposed application.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-4ZA"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">4ZA</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Acquisition of parental responsibility by second female parent</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4ZA-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where a child has a parent by virtue of section 43 of the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 2008 and is not a person to whom section 1(3) of the Family Law Reform Act 1987 applies, that parent shall acquire parental responsibility for the child if—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4ZA-1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">she becomes registered as a parent of the child under any of the enactments specified in subsection (2);</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4ZA-1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">she and the child's mother make an agreement providing for her to have parental responsibility for the child; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4ZA-1-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the court, on her application, orders that she shall have parental responsibility for the child.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4ZA-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The enactments referred to in subsection (1)(a) are—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4ZA-2-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of section 10(1B) and of section 10A(1B) of the Births and Deaths Registration Act 1953;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4ZA-2-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">paragraphs (a), (b) and (d) of section 18B(1) and sections 18B(3)(a) and 20(1)(a) of the Registration of Births, Deaths and Marriages (Scotland) Act 1965; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4ZA-2-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">sub-paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Article 14ZA(3) of the Births and Deaths Registration (Northern Ireland) Order 1976.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4ZA-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The Secretary of State may by order amend subsection (2) so as to add further enactments to the list in that subsection.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4ZA-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">An agreement under subsection (1)(b) is also a “parental responsibility agreement”, and section 4(2) applies in relation to such an agreement as it applies in relation to parental responsibility agreements under section 4.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4ZA-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A person who has acquired parental responsibility under subsection (1) shall cease to have that responsibility only if the court so orders.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4ZA-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The court may make an order under subsection (5) on the application—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4ZA-6-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">of any person who has parental responsibility for the child; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4ZA-6-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">with the leave of the court, of the child himself,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">subject, in the case of parental responsibility acquired under subsection (1)(c), to section 12(4).</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4ZA-7"><span class="LegAddition">(7)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The court may only grant leave under subsection (6)(b) if it is satisfied that the child has sufficient understanding to make the proposed application.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-4A"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">4A</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition"> Acquisition of parental responsibility by step-parent</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4A-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where a child’s parent (“</span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-parent-a"><span class="LegAddition">parent A</span></span><span class="LegAddition">”) who has parental responsibility for the child is married to </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">, or a civil partner of,</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> a person who is not the child’s parent (“</span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-the-step-parent"><span class="LegAddition">the step-parent</span></span><span class="LegAddition">”)—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4A-1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">parent A or, if the other parent of the child also has parental responsibility for the child, both parents may by agreement with the step-parent provide for the step-parent to have parental responsibility for the child; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4A-1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the court may, on the application of the step-parent, order that the step-parent shall have parental responsibility for the child.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4A-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">An agreement under subsection (1)(a) is also a “</span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-parental-responsibility-agreement"><span class="LegAddition">parental responsibility agreement</span></span><span class="LegAddition">”, and section 4(2) applies in relation to such agreements as it applies in relation to parental responsibility agreements under section 4.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4A-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A parental responsibility agreement under subsection (1)(a), or an order under subsection (1)(b), may only be brought to an end by an order of the court made on the application—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4A-3-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">of any person who has parental responsibility for the child; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4A-3-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">with the leave of the court, of the child himself.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4A-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The court may only grant leave under subsection (3)(b) if it is satisfied that the child has sufficient understanding to make the proposed application.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-5"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">5</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Appointment of guardians.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-5-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where an application with respect to a child is made to the court by any individual, the court may by order appoint that individual to be the child’s guardian if—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-5-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the child has no parent with parental responsibility for him; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-5-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">a <span class="LegSubstitution">parent, guardian or special guardian of the child's was named in a child arrangements order as a person with whom the child was to live and</span> has died while the order was in force <span class="LegAddition">; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-5-1-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">paragraph (b) does not apply, and the child’s only or last surviving special guardian dies.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-5-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The power conferred by subsection (1) may also be exercised in any family proceedings if the court considers that the order should be made even though no application has been made for it.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-5-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A parent who has parental responsibility for his child may appoint another individual to be the child’s guardian in the event of his death.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-5-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A guardian of a child may appoint another individual to take his place as the child’s guardian in the event of his death <span class="LegAddition">; and a special guardian of a child may appoint another individual to be the child’s guardian in the event of his death</span>.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-5-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">An appointment under subsection (3) or (4) shall not have effect unless it is made in writing, is dated and is signed by the person making the appointment or—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-5-5-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">in the case of an appointment made by a will which is not signed by the testator, is signed at the direction of the testator in accordance with the requirements of section 9 of the Wills Act 1837; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-5-5-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">in any other case, is signed at the direction of the person making the appointment, in his presence and in the presence of two witnesses who each attest the signature.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-5-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A person appointed as a child’s guardian under this section shall have parental responsibility for the child concerned.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-5-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-5-7-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">on the death of any person making an appointment under subsection (3) or (4), the child concerned has no parent with parental responsibility for him; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-5-7-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">immediately before the death of any person making such an appointment, a <span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order was in force in which the person was named as a person with whom the child was to live or the person</span> <span class="LegAddition">was the child’s only (or last surviving) special guardian</span>,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">the appointment shall take effect on the death of that person.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-5-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where, on the death of any person making an appointment under subsection (3) or (4)—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-5-8-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the child concerned has a parent with parental responsibility for him; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-5-8-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">subsection (7)(b) does not apply,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">the appointment shall take effect when the child no longer has a parent who has parental responsibility for him.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-5-9">(9)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Subsections (1) and (7) do not apply if the <span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements</span> order referred to in paragraph (b) of those subsections <span class="LegSubstitution">also named</span> a surviving parent of the child <span class="LegAddition">as a person with whom the child was to live</span>.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-5-10">(10)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Nothing in this section shall be taken to prevent an appointment under subsection (3) or (4) being made by two or more persons acting jointly.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-5-11">(11)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Subject to any provision made by rules of court, no court shall exercise the High Court’s inherent jurisdiction to appoint a guardian of the estate of any child.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-5-12">(12)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where rules of court are made under subsection (11) they may prescribe the circumstances in which, and conditions subject to which, an appointment of such a guardian may be made.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-5-13">(13)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A guardian of a child may only be appointed in accordance with the provisions of this section.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-6"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">6</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Guardians: revocation and disclaimer.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-6-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">An appointment under section 5(3) or (4) revokes an earlier such appointment (including one made in an unrevoked will or codicil) made by the same person in respect of the same child, unless it is clear (whether as the result of an express provision in the later appointment or by any necessary implication) that the purpose of the later appointment is to appoint an additional guardian.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-6-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">An appointment under section 5(3) or (4) (including one made in an unrevoked will or codicil) is revoked if the person who made the appointment revokes it by a written and dated instrument which is signed—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-6-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">by him; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-6-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">at his direction, in his presence and in the presence of two witnesses who each attest the signature.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-6-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">An appointment under section 5(3) or (4) (other than one made in a will or codicil) is revoked if, with the intention of revoking the appointment, the person who made it—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-6-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">destroys the instrument by which it was made; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-6-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">has some other person destroy that instrument in his presence.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-6-3A"><span class="LegAddition">(3A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">An appointment under section 5(3) or (4) (including one made in an unrevoked will or codicil) is revoked if the person appointed is the spouse of the person who made the appointment and either—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-6-3A-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">... a court of civil jurisdiction in England and Wales dissolves or annuls the marriage, or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-6-3A-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the marriage is dissolved or annulled and the divorce or annulment is entitled to recognition in England and Wales by virtue of Part II of the Family Law Act 1986,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">unless a contrary intention appears by the appointment.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-6-3B"><span class="LegAddition">(3B)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">An appointment under section 5(3) or (4)(including one made in an unrevoked will or codicil) is revoked if the person appointed is the civil partner of the person who made the appointment and either—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-6-3B-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">an order of a court of civil jurisdiction in England and Wales dissolves or annuls the civil partnership, or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-6-3B-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the civil partnership is dissolved or annulled and the dissolution or annulment is entitled to recognition in England and Wales by virtue of Chapter 3 of Part 5 of the Civil Partnership Act 2004,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">unless a contrary intention appears by the appointment.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-6-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">For the avoidance of doubt, an appointment under section 5(3) or (4) made in a will or codicil is revoked if the will or codicil is revoked.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-6-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A person who is appointed as a guardian under section 5(3) or (4) may disclaim his appointment by an instrument in writing signed by him and made within a reasonable time of his first knowing that the appointment has taken effect.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-6-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where regulations are made by the Lord Chancellor prescribing the manner in which such disclaimers must be recorded, no such disclaimer shall have effect unless it is recorded in the prescribed manner.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-6-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any appointment of a guardian under section 5 may be brought to an end at any time by order of the court—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-6-7-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">on the application of any person who has parental responsibility for the child;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-6-7-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">on the application of the child concerned, with leave of the court; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-6-7-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">in any family proceedings, if the court considers that it should be brought to an end even though no application has been made.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-7"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">7</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Welfare reports.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-7-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A court considering any question with respect to a child under this Act may—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-7-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">ask <span class="LegAddition">an officer of the Service</span> <span class="LegAddition">or a Welsh family proceedings officer</span> ; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-7-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">ask a local authority to arrange for—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-7-1-b-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">an officer of the authority; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-7-1-b-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">such other person (other than <span class="LegAddition">an officer of the Service</span> <span class="LegAddition">or a Welsh family proceedings officer</span> ) as the authority considers appropriate,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">to report to the court on such matters relating to the welfare of that child as are required to be dealt with in the report.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-7-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The Lord Chancellor may <span class="LegAddition">, after consulting the Lord Chief Justice,</span> make regulations specifying matters which, unless the court orders otherwise, must be dealt with in any report under this section.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-7-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The report may be made in writing, or orally, as the court requires.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-7-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Regardless of any enactment or rule of law which would otherwise prevent it from doing so, the court may take account of—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-7-4-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any statement contained in the report; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-7-4-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any evidence given in respect of the matters referred to in the report,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">in so far as the statement or evidence is, in the opinion of the court, relevant to the question which it is considering.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-7-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">It shall be the duty of the authority or <span class="LegAddition">officer of the Service</span> <span class="LegAddition">or a Welsh family proceedings officer</span> to comply with any request for a report under this section.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-7-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The Lord Chief Justice may nominate a judicial office holder (as defined in section 109(4) of the Constitutional Reform Act 2005) to exercise his functions under subsection (2).</span></span> </p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>