<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"> <head><meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/> <title xmlns:atom="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom">Children Act 1989 (c. 41)</title> xmlns:atom="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom"<meta content="2025-10-07" name="DC.Date.Modified" scheme="W3CDTF"/> xmlns:atom="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom"<meta content="2025-09-01" name="DC.Date.Valid" scheme="W3CDTF"/> <style media="screen, print" type="text/css" xmlns:atom="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom">@import "../styles/legislation.css";@import "../styles/primarylegislation.css";</style> </head> <body> <div class="LegSnippet"> <a name="content"/> <div class="DocContainer" xmlns:atom="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom"><div class="LegClearFix LegPrelims"><h1 class="LegTitle">Children Act 1989</h1><h1 class="LegNo">1989 CHAPTER 41</h1><p class="LegLongTitle">An Act to reform the law relating to children; to provide for local authority services for children in need and others; to amend the law with respect to children’s homes, community homes, voluntary homes and voluntary organisations; to make provision with respect to fostering, child minding and day care for young children and adoption; and for connected purposes.</p><p class="LegDateOfEnactment">[16th November 1989]</p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="Legislation-Preamble"/><div class="LegEnactingText"><p class="LegText">Be it enacted by the Queen’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—
</p></div></div><a class="LegAnchorID" id="part-I"/><div class="LegClearPart"/><h2 class="LegPartFirst"><span class="LegPartNo">Part I<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span><span class="LegPartTitle"> Introductory</span></h2><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-1"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">1</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst"> Welfare of the child.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-1-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">When a court determines any question with respect to—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-1-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the upbringing of a child; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-1-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the administration of a child’s property or the application of any income arising from it,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">the child’s welfare shall be the court’s paramount consideration.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-1-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In any proceedings in which any question with respect to the upbringing of a child arises, the court shall have regard to the general principle that any delay in determining the question is likely to prejudice the welfare of the child.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-1-2A"><span class="LegAddition">(2A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A court, in the circumstances mentioned in subsection (4)(a) or (7), is as respects each parent within subsection (6)(a) to presume, unless the contrary is shown, that involvement of that parent in the life of the child concerned will further the child's welfare.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-1-2B"><span class="LegAddition">(2B)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">In subsection (2A) “</span><span class="LegTerm"><span class="LegAddition">involvement</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” means involvement of some kind, either direct or indirect, but not any particular division of a child's time.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-1-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In the circumstances mentioned in subsection (4), a court shall have regard in particular to—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-1-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the ascertainable wishes and feelings of the child concerned (considered in the light of his age and understanding);</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-1-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">his physical, emotional and educational needs;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-1-3-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the likely effect on him of any change in his circumstances;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-1-3-d">(d)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">his age, sex, background and any characteristics of his which the court considers relevant;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-1-3-e">(e)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any harm which he has suffered or is at risk of suffering;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-1-3-f">(f)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">how capable each of his parents, and any other person in relation to whom the court considers the question to be relevant, is of meeting his needs;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-1-3-g">(g)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the range of powers available to the court under this Act in the proceedings in question.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-1-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The circumstances are that—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-1-4-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the court is considering whether to make, vary or discharge a section 8 order, and the making, variation or discharge of the order is opposed by any party to the proceedings; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-1-4-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the court is considering whether to make, vary or discharge <span class="LegAddition">a special guardianship order or</span> an order under Part IV.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-1-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a court is considering whether or not to make one or more orders under this Act with respect to a child, it shall not make the order or any of the orders unless it considers that doing so would be better for the child than making no order at all.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-1-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">In subsection (2A) “</span><span class="LegTerm"><span class="LegAddition">parent</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” means parent of the child concerned; and, for the purposes of that subsection, a parent of the child concerned—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-1-6-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">is within this paragraph if that parent can be involved in the child's life in a way that does not put the child at risk of suffering harm; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-1-6-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">is to be treated as being within paragraph (a) unless there is some evidence before the court in the particular proceedings to suggest that involvement of that parent in the child's life would put the child at risk of suffering harm whatever the form of the involvement.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-1-7"><span class="LegAddition">(7)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The circumstances referred to are that the court is considering whether to make an order under section 4(1)(c) or (2A) or 4ZA(1)(c) or (5) (parental responsibility of parent other than mother).</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-2"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">2</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Parental responsibility for children.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-2-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a child’s father and mother were married to <span class="LegAddition">, or civil partners of,</span> each other at the time of his birth, they shall each have parental responsibility for the child.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-2-1A"><span class="LegAddition">(1A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where a child—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-2-1A-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">has a parent by virtue of section 42 of the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 2008; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-2-1A-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">has a parent by virtue of section 43 of that Act and is a person to whom section 1(3) of the Family Law Reform Act 1987 applies,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">the child's mother and the other parent shall each have parental responsibility for the child.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-2-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where a child’s father and mother were not married to </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">, or civil partners of,</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> each other at the time of his birth—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-2-2-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the mother shall have parental responsibility for the child;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-2-2-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the father </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">shall have parental responsibility for the child if he has acquired it (and has not ceased to have it)</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> in accordance with the provisions of this Act.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-2-2A"><span class="LegAddition">(2A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where a child has a parent by virtue of section 43 of the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 2008 and is not a person to whom section 1(3) of the Family Law Reform Act 1987 applies—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-2-2A-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the mother shall have parental responsibility for the child;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-2-2A-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the other parent shall have parental responsibility for the child if she has acquired it (and has not ceased to have it) in accordance with the provisions of this Act.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-2-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">References in this Act to a child whose father and mother were, or (as the case may be) were not, married to <span class="LegAddition">, or civil partners of,</span> each other at the time of his birth must be read with section 1 of the Family Law Reform Act 1987 (which extends their meaning).</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-2-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The rule of law that a father is the natural guardian of his legitimate child is abolished.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-2-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">More than one person may have parental responsibility for the same child at the same time.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-2-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A person who has parental responsibility for a child at any time shall not cease to have that responsibility solely because some other person subsequently acquires parental responsibility for the child.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-2-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where more than one person has parental responsibility for a child, each of them may act alone and without the other (or others) in meeting that responsibility; but nothing in this Part shall be taken to affect the operation of any enactment which requires the consent of more than one person in a matter affecting the child.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-2-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The fact that a person has parental responsibility for a child shall not entitle him to act in any way which would be incompatible with any order made with respect to the child under this Act.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-2-9">(9)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A person who has parental responsibility for a child may not surrender or transfer any part of that responsibility to another but may arrange for some or all of it to be met by one or more persons acting on his behalf.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-2-10">(10)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The person with whom any such arrangement is made may himself be a person who already has parental responsibility for the child concerned.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-2-11">(11)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The making of any such arrangement shall not affect any liability of the person making it which may arise from any failure to meet any part of his parental responsibility for the child concerned.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-3"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">3</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Meaning of “parental responsibility”.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-3-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In this Act “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-parental-responsibility">parental responsibility</span>” means all the rights, duties, powers, responsibilities and authority which by law a parent of a child has in relation to the child and his property.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-3-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">It also includes the rights, powers and duties which a guardian of the child’s estate (appointed, before the commencement of section 5, to act generally) would have had in relation to the child and his property.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-3-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The rights referred to in subsection (2) include, in particular, the right of the guardian to receive or recover in his own name, for the benefit of the child, property of whatever description and wherever situated which the child is entitled to receive or recover.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-3-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The fact that a person has, or does not have, parental responsibility for a child shall not affect—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-3-4-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any obligation which he may have in relation to the child (such as a statutory duty to maintain the child); or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-3-4-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any rights which, in the event of the child’s death, he (or any other person) may have in relation to the child’s property.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-3-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A person who—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-3-5-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">does not have parental responsibility for a particular child; but</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-3-5-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">has care of the child,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">may (subject to the provisions of this Act) do what is reasonable in all the circumstances of the case for the purpose of safeguarding or promoting the child’s welfare.
</p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-4"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">4</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Acquisition of parental responsibility by father.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a child’s father and mother were not married to <span class="LegAddition">, or civil partners of,</span> each other at the time of his birth <span class="LegAddition">, the father shall acquire parental responsibility for the child if—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4-1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">he becomes registered as the child’s father under any of the enactments specified in subsection (1A);</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4-1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">he and the child’s mother make an agreement (a “</span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-parental-responsibility-agreement"><span class="LegAddition">parental responsibility agreement</span></span><span class="LegAddition">”) providing for him to have parental responsibility for the child; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4-1-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the court, on his application, orders that he shall have parental responsibility for the child.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4-1A"><span class="LegAddition">(1A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The enactments referred to in subsection (1)(a) are—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4-1A-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of section 10(1) and of section 10A(1) of the Births and Deaths Registration Act 1953;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4-1A-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">paragraphs (a), (b)(i) and (c) of section 18(1), and sections 18(2)(b) and 20(1)(a) of the Registration of Births, Deaths and Marriages (Scotland) Act 1965; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4-1A-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">sub-paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Article 14(3) of the Births and Deaths Registration (Northern Ireland) Order 1976.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4-1B"><span class="LegAddition">(1B)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> may by order amend subsection (1A) so as to add further enactments to the list in that subsection.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">No parental responsibility agreement shall have effect for the purposes of this Act unless—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">it is made in the form prescribed by regulations made by the Lord Chancellor; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">where regulations are made by the Lord Chancellor prescribing the manner in which such agreements must be recorded, it is recorded in the prescribed manner.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4-2A"><span class="LegAddition">(2A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A person who has acquired parental responsibility under subsection (1) shall cease to have that responsibility only if the court so orders.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The court may make an order under subsection (2A) on the application—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4-3-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">of any person who has parental responsibility for the child; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4-3-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">with the leave of the court, of the child himself,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">subject, in the case of parental responsibility acquired under subsection (1)(c), to section 12(4).</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The court may only grant leave under subsection (3)(b) if it is satisfied that the child has sufficient understanding to make the proposed application.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-4ZA"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">4ZA</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Acquisition of parental responsibility by second female parent</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4ZA-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where a child has a parent by virtue of section 43 of the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 2008 and is not a person to whom section 1(3) of the Family Law Reform Act 1987 applies, that parent shall acquire parental responsibility for the child if—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4ZA-1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">she becomes registered as a parent of the child under any of the enactments specified in subsection (2);</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4ZA-1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">she and the child's mother make an agreement providing for her to have parental responsibility for the child; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4ZA-1-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the court, on her application, orders that she shall have parental responsibility for the child.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4ZA-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The enactments referred to in subsection (1)(a) are—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4ZA-2-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of section 10(1B) and of section 10A(1B) of the Births and Deaths Registration Act 1953;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4ZA-2-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">paragraphs (a), (b) and (d) of section 18B(1) and sections 18B(3)(a) and 20(1)(a) of the Registration of Births, Deaths and Marriages (Scotland) Act 1965; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4ZA-2-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">sub-paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Article 14ZA(3) of the Births and Deaths Registration (Northern Ireland) Order 1976.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4ZA-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The Secretary of State may by order amend subsection (2) so as to add further enactments to the list in that subsection.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4ZA-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">An agreement under subsection (1)(b) is also a “parental responsibility agreement”, and section 4(2) applies in relation to such an agreement as it applies in relation to parental responsibility agreements under section 4.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4ZA-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A person who has acquired parental responsibility under subsection (1) shall cease to have that responsibility only if the court so orders.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4ZA-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The court may make an order under subsection (5) on the application—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4ZA-6-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">of any person who has parental responsibility for the child; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4ZA-6-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">with the leave of the court, of the child himself,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">subject, in the case of parental responsibility acquired under subsection (1)(c), to section 12(4).</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4ZA-7"><span class="LegAddition">(7)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The court may only grant leave under subsection (6)(b) if it is satisfied that the child has sufficient understanding to make the proposed application.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-4A"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">4A</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition"> Acquisition of parental responsibility by step-parent</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4A-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where a child’s parent (“</span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-parent-a"><span class="LegAddition">parent A</span></span><span class="LegAddition">”) who has parental responsibility for the child is married to </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">, or a civil partner of,</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> a person who is not the child’s parent (“</span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-the-step-parent"><span class="LegAddition">the step-parent</span></span><span class="LegAddition">”)—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4A-1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">parent A or, if the other parent of the child also has parental responsibility for the child, both parents may by agreement with the step-parent provide for the step-parent to have parental responsibility for the child; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4A-1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the court may, on the application of the step-parent, order that the step-parent shall have parental responsibility for the child.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4A-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">An agreement under subsection (1)(a) is also a “</span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-parental-responsibility-agreement"><span class="LegAddition">parental responsibility agreement</span></span><span class="LegAddition">”, and section 4(2) applies in relation to such agreements as it applies in relation to parental responsibility agreements under section 4.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4A-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A parental responsibility agreement under subsection (1)(a), or an order under subsection (1)(b), may only be brought to an end by an order of the court made on the application—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4A-3-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">of any person who has parental responsibility for the child; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-4A-3-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">with the leave of the court, of the child himself.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-4A-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The court may only grant leave under subsection (3)(b) if it is satisfied that the child has sufficient understanding to make the proposed application.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-5"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">5</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Appointment of guardians.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-5-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where an application with respect to a child is made to the court by any individual, the court may by order appoint that individual to be the child’s guardian if—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-5-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the child has no parent with parental responsibility for him; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-5-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">a <span class="LegSubstitution">parent, guardian or special guardian of the child's was named in a child arrangements order as a person with whom the child was to live and</span> has died while the order was in force <span class="LegAddition">; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-5-1-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">paragraph (b) does not apply, and the child’s only or last surviving special guardian dies.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-5-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The power conferred by subsection (1) may also be exercised in any family proceedings if the court considers that the order should be made even though no application has been made for it.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-5-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A parent who has parental responsibility for his child may appoint another individual to be the child’s guardian in the event of his death.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-5-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A guardian of a child may appoint another individual to take his place as the child’s guardian in the event of his death <span class="LegAddition">; and a special guardian of a child may appoint another individual to be the child’s guardian in the event of his death</span>.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-5-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">An appointment under subsection (3) or (4) shall not have effect unless it is made in writing, is dated and is signed by the person making the appointment or—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-5-5-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">in the case of an appointment made by a will which is not signed by the testator, is signed at the direction of the testator in accordance with the requirements of section 9 of the Wills Act 1837; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-5-5-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">in any other case, is signed at the direction of the person making the appointment, in his presence and in the presence of two witnesses who each attest the signature.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-5-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A person appointed as a child’s guardian under this section shall have parental responsibility for the child concerned.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-5-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-5-7-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">on the death of any person making an appointment under subsection (3) or (4), the child concerned has no parent with parental responsibility for him; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-5-7-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">immediately before the death of any person making such an appointment, a <span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order was in force in which the person was named as a person with whom the child was to live or the person</span> <span class="LegAddition">was the child’s only (or last surviving) special guardian</span>,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">the appointment shall take effect on the death of that person.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-5-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where, on the death of any person making an appointment under subsection (3) or (4)—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-5-8-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the child concerned has a parent with parental responsibility for him; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-5-8-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">subsection (7)(b) does not apply,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">the appointment shall take effect when the child no longer has a parent who has parental responsibility for him.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-5-9">(9)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Subsections (1) and (7) do not apply if the <span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements</span> order referred to in paragraph (b) of those subsections <span class="LegSubstitution">also named</span> a surviving parent of the child <span class="LegAddition">as a person with whom the child was to live</span>.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-5-10">(10)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Nothing in this section shall be taken to prevent an appointment under subsection (3) or (4) being made by two or more persons acting jointly.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-5-11">(11)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Subject to any provision made by rules of court, no court shall exercise the High Court’s inherent jurisdiction to appoint a guardian of the estate of any child.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-5-12">(12)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where rules of court are made under subsection (11) they may prescribe the circumstances in which, and conditions subject to which, an appointment of such a guardian may be made.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-5-13">(13)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A guardian of a child may only be appointed in accordance with the provisions of this section.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-6"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">6</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Guardians: revocation and disclaimer.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-6-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">An appointment under section 5(3) or (4) revokes an earlier such appointment (including one made in an unrevoked will or codicil) made by the same person in respect of the same child, unless it is clear (whether as the result of an express provision in the later appointment or by any necessary implication) that the purpose of the later appointment is to appoint an additional guardian.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-6-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">An appointment under section 5(3) or (4) (including one made in an unrevoked will or codicil) is revoked if the person who made the appointment revokes it by a written and dated instrument which is signed—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-6-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">by him; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-6-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">at his direction, in his presence and in the presence of two witnesses who each attest the signature.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-6-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">An appointment under section 5(3) or (4) (other than one made in a will or codicil) is revoked if, with the intention of revoking the appointment, the person who made it—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-6-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">destroys the instrument by which it was made; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-6-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">has some other person destroy that instrument in his presence.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-6-3A"><span class="LegAddition">(3A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">An appointment under section 5(3) or (4) (including one made in an unrevoked will or codicil) is revoked if the person appointed is the spouse of the person who made the appointment and either—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-6-3A-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">... a court of civil jurisdiction in England and Wales dissolves or annuls the marriage, or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-6-3A-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the marriage is dissolved or annulled and the divorce or annulment is entitled to recognition in England and Wales by virtue of Part II of the Family Law Act 1986,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">unless a contrary intention appears by the appointment.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-6-3B"><span class="LegAddition">(3B)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">An appointment under section 5(3) or (4)(including one made in an unrevoked will or codicil) is revoked if the person appointed is the civil partner of the person who made the appointment and either—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-6-3B-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">an order of a court of civil jurisdiction in England and Wales dissolves or annuls the civil partnership, or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-6-3B-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the civil partnership is dissolved or annulled and the dissolution or annulment is entitled to recognition in England and Wales by virtue of Chapter 3 of Part 5 of the Civil Partnership Act 2004,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">unless a contrary intention appears by the appointment.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-6-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">For the avoidance of doubt, an appointment under section 5(3) or (4) made in a will or codicil is revoked if the will or codicil is revoked.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-6-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A person who is appointed as a guardian under section 5(3) or (4) may disclaim his appointment by an instrument in writing signed by him and made within a reasonable time of his first knowing that the appointment has taken effect.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-6-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where regulations are made by the Lord Chancellor prescribing the manner in which such disclaimers must be recorded, no such disclaimer shall have effect unless it is recorded in the prescribed manner.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-6-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any appointment of a guardian under section 5 may be brought to an end at any time by order of the court—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-6-7-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">on the application of any person who has parental responsibility for the child;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-6-7-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">on the application of the child concerned, with leave of the court; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-6-7-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">in any family proceedings, if the court considers that it should be brought to an end even though no application has been made.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-7"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">7</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Welfare reports.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-7-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A court considering any question with respect to a child under this Act may—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-7-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">ask <span class="LegAddition">an officer of the Service</span> <span class="LegAddition">or a Welsh family proceedings officer</span> ; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-7-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">ask a local authority to arrange for—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-7-1-b-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">an officer of the authority; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-7-1-b-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">such other person (other than <span class="LegAddition">an officer of the Service</span> <span class="LegAddition">or a Welsh family proceedings officer</span> ) as the authority considers appropriate,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">to report to the court on such matters relating to the welfare of that child as are required to be dealt with in the report.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-7-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The Lord Chancellor may <span class="LegAddition">, after consulting the Lord Chief Justice,</span> make regulations specifying matters which, unless the court orders otherwise, must be dealt with in any report under this section.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-7-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The report may be made in writing, or orally, as the court requires.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-7-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Regardless of any enactment or rule of law which would otherwise prevent it from doing so, the court may take account of—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-7-4-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any statement contained in the report; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-7-4-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any evidence given in respect of the matters referred to in the report,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">in so far as the statement or evidence is, in the opinion of the court, relevant to the question which it is considering.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-7-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">It shall be the duty of the authority or <span class="LegAddition">officer of the Service</span> <span class="LegAddition">or a Welsh family proceedings officer</span> to comply with any request for a report under this section.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-7-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The Lord Chief Justice may nominate a judicial office holder (as defined in section 109(4) of the Constitutional Reform Act 2005) to exercise his functions under subsection (2).</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="part-II"/><div class="LegClearPart"/><h2 class="LegPart"><span class="LegPartNo">Part II<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span><span class="LegPartTitle"> Orders With Respect To Children In Family Proceedings</span></h2><h3 class="LegPblockFirst"><span class="LegPblockTitle"> General<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-8"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">8</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst"> <span class="LegSubstitution">Child arrangements orders</span> and other orders with respect to children.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-8-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In this Act —</span> </p><ul class="LegTabbedDef LegUnorderedList"><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegTerm"><span class="LegAddition">"child arrangements order</span></span><span class="LegAddition">" means an order regulating arrangements relating to any of the following—</span> </p><div><div class="LegAlphaList"><div class="LegListItem"><div class="LegLevel4No LegListItemNo">(a)</div><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel4"><span class="LegAddition">with whom a child is to live, spend time or otherwise have contact, and</span> </p></div><div class="LegListItem"><div class="LegLevel4No LegListItemNo">(b)</div><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel4"><span class="LegAddition">when a child is to live, spend time or otherwise have contact with any person;</span> </p></div></div></div></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">...
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-a-prohibited-steps-order">a prohibited steps order</span>” means an order that no step which could be taken by a parent in meeting his parental responsibility for a child, and which is of a kind specified in the order, shall be taken by any person without the consent of the court;
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">...
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-a-specific-issue-order">a specific issue order</span>” means an order giving directions for the purpose of determining a specific question which has arisen, or which may arise, in connection with any aspect of parental responsibility for a child.
</p></li></ul><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-8-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In this Act “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-a-section-8-order">a section 8 order</span>” means any of the orders mentioned in subsection (1) and any order varying or discharging such an order.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-8-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">For the purposes of this Act “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-family-proceedings">family proceedings</span>” means any proceedings—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-8-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">under the inherent jurisdiction of the High Court in relation to children; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-8-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">under the enactments mentioned in subsection (4),</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">but does not include proceedings on an application for leave under section 100(3).
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-8-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The enactments are—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-8-4-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">Parts I, II and IV of this Act;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-8-4-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the Matrimonial Causes Act 1973;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-8-4-ba"><span class="LegAddition">(ba)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">Schedule 5 to the Civil Partnership Act 2004;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-8-4-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"> the </span><span class="LegAddition"> Domestic Violence and Matrimonial Proceedings Act 1976; </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-8-4-d"><span class="LegAddition">(d)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the Adoption and Children Act 2002;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-8-4-e">(e)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the Domestic Proceedings and Magistrates’ Courts Act 1978;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-8-4-ea"><span class="LegAddition">(ea)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">Schedule 6 to the Civil Partnership Act 2004;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-8-4-f"><span class="LegAddition">(f)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"> sections 1 and 9 of the </span><span class="LegAddition"> Matrimonial Homes Act 1983; </span> </span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-8-4-g">(g)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">Part III of the Matrimonial and Family Proceedings Act 1984;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-8-4-h"> <span class="LegAddition">(h)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the Family Law Act 1996</span>;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-8-4-i"><span class="LegAddition">(i)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">sections 11 and 12 of the Crime and Disorder Act 1998</span>;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-8-4-j"><span class="LegAddition">(j)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">Part 1 of Schedule 2 to the Female Genital Mutilation Act 2003 (other than paragraph 3 of that Schedule).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-8-4-k"><span class="LegAddition">(k)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">Part 3 of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021, where the proceedings are in the family court or the Family Division of the High Court.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-9"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">9</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Restrictions on making section 8 orders.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-9-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">No court shall make any section 8 order, other than a <span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order to which subsection (6B) applies</span>, with respect to a child who is in the care of a local authority.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-9-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">No application may be made by a local authority for a <span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements</span> order and no court shall make such an order in favour of a local authority.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-9-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A person who is, or was at any time within the last six months, a local authority foster parent of a child may not apply for leave to apply for a section 8 order with respect to the child unless—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-9-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">he has the consent of the authority;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-9-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">he is a relative of the child; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-9-3-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the child has lived with him for at least <span class="LegAddition">one year</span> preceding the application.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-9-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-9-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">No court shall exercise its powers to make a specific issue order or prohibited steps order—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-9-5-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">with a view to achieving a result which could be achieved by making a <span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements</span> order <span class="LegAddition"> or an order under section 51A of the Adoption and Children Act 2002 (post-adoption contact)</span>; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-9-5-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">in any way which is denied to the High Court (by section 100(2)) in the exercise of its inherent jurisdiction with respect to children.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-9-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">No court shall make a </span><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegSubstitution">section 8</span></span><span class="LegSubstitution"> order </span> which will end after the child has reached the age of sixteen unless it is satisfied that the circumstances of the case are exceptional.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-9-6A"><span class="LegAddition">(6A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Subsection (6) does not apply to a child arrangements order to which subsection (6B) applies.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-9-6B"><span class="LegAddition">(6B)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">This subsection applies to a child arrangements order if the arrangements regulated by the order relate only to either or both of the following—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-9-6B-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">with whom the child concerned is to live, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-9-6B-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">when the child is to live with any person.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-9-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">No court shall make any section 8 order, other than one varying or discharging such an order, with respect to a child who has reached the age of sixteen unless it is satisfied that the circumstances of the case are exceptional.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-10"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">10</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Power of court to make section 8 orders.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-10-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In any family proceedings in which a question arises with respect to the welfare of any child, the court may make a section 8 order with respect to the child if—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-10-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">an application for the order has been made by a person who—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-10-1-a-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">is entitled to apply for a section 8 order with respect to the child; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-10-1-a-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">has obtained the leave of the court to make the application; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-10-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the court considers that the order should be made even though no such application has been made.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-10-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The court may also make a section 8 order with respect to any child on the application of a person who—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-10-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">is entitled to apply for a section 8 order with respect to the child; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-10-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">has obtained the leave of the court to make the application.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-10-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">This section is subject to the restrictions imposed by section 9.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-10-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The following persons are entitled to apply to the court for any section 8 order with respect to a child—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-10-4-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any parent <span class="LegAddition">, guardian or special guardian</span> of the child;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-10-4-aa"><span class="LegAddition">(aa)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any person who by virtue of section 4A has parental responsibility for the child;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-10-4-b"><span class="LegSubstitution">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">any person who is named, in a child arrangements order that is in force with respect to the child, as a person with whom the child is to live.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-10-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The following persons are entitled to apply for a <span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements</span> order with respect to a child—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-10-5-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any party to a marriage (whether or not subsisting) in relation to whom the child is a child of the family;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-10-5-aa"><span class="LegAddition">(aa)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any civil partner in a civil partnership (whether or not subsisting) in relation to whom the child is a child of the family;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-10-5-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any person with whom the child has lived for a period of at least three years;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-10-5-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any person who—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-10-5-c-i"><span class="LegSubstitution">(i)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">in any case where a child arrangements order in force with respect to the child regulates arrangements relating to with whom the child is to live or when the child is to live with any person, has the consent of each of the persons named in the order as a person with whom the child is to live;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-10-5-c-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">in any case where the child is in the care of a local authority, has the consent of that authority; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-10-5-c-iii">(iii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">in any other case, has the consent of each of those (if any) who have parental responsibility for the child.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-10-5-d"><span class="LegAddition">(d)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any person who has parental responsibility for the child by virtue of provision made under section 12(2A).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-10-5A"><span class="LegAddition">(5A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A local authority foster parent is entitled to apply for a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order to which subsection (5C) applies </span></span><span class="LegAddition"> with respect to a child if the child has lived with him for a period of at least one year immediately preceding the application.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-10-5B"><span class="LegAddition">(5B)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A relative of a child is entitled to apply for a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order to which subsection (5C) applies </span></span><span class="LegAddition"> with respect to the child if the child has lived with the relative for a period of at least one year immediately preceding the application.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-10-5C"><span class="LegAddition">(5C)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">This subsection applies to a child arrangements order if the arrangements regulated by the order relate only to either or both of the following—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-10-5C-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">with whom the child concerned is to live, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-10-5C-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">when the child is to live with any person.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-10-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A person who would not otherwise be entitled (under the previous provisions of this section) to apply for the variation or discharge of a section 8 order shall be entitled to do so if—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-10-6-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the order was made on his application; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-10-6-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">in the case of a <span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements</span> order, he is named in <span class="LegSubstitution">provisions of the order regulating arrangements relating to—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-10-6-i"><span class="LegSubstitution">(i)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">with whom the child concerned is to spend time or otherwise have contact, or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-10-6-ii"><span class="LegSubstitution">(ii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">when the child is to spend time or otherwise have contact with any person.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-10-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any person who falls within a category of person prescribed by rules of court is entitled to apply for any such section 8 order as may be prescribed in relation to that category of person.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-10-7A"><span class="LegAddition">(7A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">If a special guardianship order is in force with respect to a child, an application for a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order to which subsection (7B) applies </span></span><span class="LegAddition"> may only be made with respect to him, if apart from this subsection the leave of the court is not required, with such leave.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-10-7B"><span class="LegAddition">(7B)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">This subsection applies to a child arrangements order if the arrangements regulated by the order consist of, or include, arrangements which relate to either or both of the following—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-10-7B-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">with whom the child concerned is to live, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-10-7B-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">when the child is to live with any person.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-10-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where the person applying for leave to make an application for a section 8 order is the child concerned, the court may only grant leave if it is satisfied that he has sufficient understanding to make the proposed application for the section 8 order.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-10-9">(9)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where the person applying for leave to make an application for a section 8 order is not the child concerned, the court shall, in deciding whether or not to grant leave, have particular regard to—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-10-9-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the nature of the proposed application for the section 8 order;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-10-9-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the applicant’s connection with the child;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-10-9-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any risk there might be of that proposed application disrupting the child’s life to such an extent that he would be harmed by it; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-10-9-d">(d)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">where the child is being looked after by a local authority—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-10-9-d-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">the authority’s plans for the child’s future; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-10-9-d-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">the wishes and feelings of the child’s parents.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-10-10">(10)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The period of three years mentioned in subsection (5)(b) need not be continuous but must not have begun more than five years before, or ended more than three months before, the making of the application.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-11"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">11</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> General principles and supplementary provisions.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In proceedings in which any question of making a section 8 order, or any other question with respect to such an order, arises, the court shall (in the light of any <span class="LegSubstitution">provision in rules of court that is of the kind mentioned in subsection (2)(a) or (b)) </span>—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">draw up a timetable with a view to determining the question without delay; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">give such directions as it considers appropriate for the purpose of ensuring, so far as is reasonably practicable, that that timetable is adhered to.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Rules of court may—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">specify periods within which specified steps must be taken in relation to proceedings in which such questions arise; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">make other provision with respect to such proceedings for the purpose of ensuring, so far as is reasonably practicable, that such questions are determined without delay.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a court has power to make a section 8 order, it may do so at any time during the course of the proceedings in question even though it is not in a position to dispose finally of those proceedings.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11-5-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">a <span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements</span> order has been made with respect to a child; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11-5-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">the child has</span> two parents who each have parental responsibility for him,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">the<span class="LegSubstitution">order, so far as it has the result that there are times when the child lives or is to live with one of the parents,</span> shall cease to have effect if the parents live together for a continuous period of more than six months.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">A child arrangements order made with respect to a child, so far as it provides for the child to spend time or otherwise have contact with one of the child's parents at times when the child is living with the child's other parent, </span> shall cease to have effect if the parents live together for a continuous period of more than six months.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A section 8 order may—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11-7-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">contain directions about how it is to be carried into effect;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11-7-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">impose conditions which must be complied with by any person—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-11-7-b-i"><span class="LegSubstitution">(i)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">who is named in the order as a person with whom the child concerned is to live, spend time or otherwise have contact;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-11-7-b-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">who is a parent of the child ...;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-11-7-b-iii">(iii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">who is not a parent of his but who has parental responsibility for him; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-11-7-b-iv">(iv)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">with whom the child is living,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP3Text">and to whom the conditions are expressed to apply;
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11-7-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">be made to have effect for a specified period, or contain provisions which are to have effect for a specified period;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11-7-d">(d)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">make such incidental, supplemental or consequential provision as the court thinks fit.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-11A"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">11A</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">... Activity directions</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11A-1"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(1)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Subsection (2) applies in proceedings in which the court is considering whether to make provision about one or more of the matters mentioned in subsection (1A) by making—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11A-1-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">a child arrangements order with respect to the child concerned, or</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11A-1-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an order varying or discharging a child arrangements order with respect to the child concerned.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11A-1A"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(1A)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">The matters mentioned in this subsection are—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11A-1A-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">with whom a child is to live,</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11A-1A-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">when a child is to live with any person,</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11A-1A-c"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(c)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">with whom a child is to spend time or otherwise have contact, and</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11A-1A-d"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(d)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">when a child is to spend time or otherwise have contact with any person.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11A-2"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(2)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">The court may make an activity direction in connection with the provision that the court is considering whether to make.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11A-2A"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(2A)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Subsection (2B) applies in proceedings in which subsection (2) does not apply and in which the court is considering—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11A-2A-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">whether a person has failed to comply with a provision of a child arrangements order, or</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11A-2A-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">what steps to take in consequence of a person's failure to comply with a provision of a child arrangements order.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11A-2B"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(2B)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">The court may make an activity direction in connection with that provision of the child arrangements order.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11A-3"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(3)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">An activity direction is a direction requiring an individual who is a party to the proceedings concerned to take part in an activity that would, in the court's opinion, help to establish, maintain or improve the involvement in the life of the child concerned of—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11A-3-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">that individual, or</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11A-3-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">another individual who is a party to the proceedings.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11A-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The direction is to specify the activity and the person providing the activity.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11A-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The activities that may be so required include, in particular—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11A-5-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">programmes, classes and counselling or guidance sessions of a kind that—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-11A-5-a-i"><span class="LegAddition">(i)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">may assist a person as regards establishing, maintaining or improving </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">involvement in a child's life</span></span><span class="LegAddition">;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-11A-5-a-ii"><span class="LegAddition">(ii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">may, by addressing a person's violent behaviour, enable or facilitate </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">involvement in a child's life</span></span><span class="LegAddition">;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11A-5-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">sessions in which information or advice is given as regards making or operating arrangements for </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">involvement in a child's life</span></span><span class="LegAddition">, including making arrangements by means of mediation.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11A-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">No individual may be required by </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> activity direction—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11A-6-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">to undergo medical or psychiatric examination, assessment or treatment;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11A-6-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">to take part in mediation.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11A-7"><span class="LegAddition">(7)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A court may not on the same occasion—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11A-7-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">make </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an activity direction under subsection (2) </span></span><span class="LegAddition">, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11A-7-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">dispose finally of the proceedings as they relate to </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">the matters mentioned in subsection (1A) in connection with which the activity direction is made</span></span><span class="LegAddition">.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11A-8"><span class="LegAddition">(8)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Each of subsections (2) and (2B)</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> has effect subject to the restrictions in sections 11B and 11E.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11A-9"><span class="LegAddition">(9)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">In considering whether to make </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an</span></span><span class="LegAddition">activity direction, the welfare of the child concerned is to be the court's paramount consideration.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11A-7A"><span class="LegAddition">(7A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A court may not on the same occasion—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11A-7A-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">make an activity direction under subsection (2B), and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11A-7A-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">dispose finally of the proceedings as they relate to failure to comply with the provision in connection with which the activity direction is made.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-11B"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">11B</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">... Activity directions: further provision</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11B-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A court may not make </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an activity direction under section 11A(2) in connection with any matter mentioned in section 11A(1A) </span></span><span class="LegAddition"> unless there is a dispute as regards the provision </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">about that matter</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> that the court is considering whether to make in the proceedings.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11B-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A court may not make </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> activity direction requiring an individual who is a child to take part in an activity unless the individual is a parent of the child in relation to whom the court is considering provision </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">about a matter mentioned in section 11A(1A)</span></span><span class="LegAddition">.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11B-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A court may not make </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an activity</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> activity direction in connection with the making, variation or discharge of a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order </span></span><span class="LegAddition">, if the</span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order </span></span><span class="LegAddition"> is, or would if made be, an excepted order.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11B-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order </span></span><span class="LegAddition"> with respect to a child is an excepted order if—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11B-4-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">it is made in proceedings that include proceedings on an application for a relevant adoption order in respect of the child; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11B-4-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">it makes provision as regards contact between the child and a person who would be a parent or relative of the child but for the child's adoption by an order falling within subsection (5).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11B-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">An order falls within this subsection if it is—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11B-5-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a relevant adoption order;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11B-5-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">an adoption order, within the meaning of section 72(1) of the Adoption Act 1976, other than an order made by virtue of section 14 of that Act on the application of a married couple one of whom is the mother or the father of the child;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11B-5-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a Scottish adoption order, within the meaning of the Adoption and Children Act 2002, other than an order made—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-11B-5-c-i"><span class="LegAddition">(i)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">by virtue of section 14 of the Adoption (Scotland) Act 1978 on the application of a married couple one of whom is the mother or the father of the child, or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-11B-5-c-ii"><span class="LegAddition">(ii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">by virtue of section 15(1)(aa) of that Act; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-11B-5-iii"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(iii)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> by virtue of an application under section </span></span> <span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> 30 of the Adoption and Children (Scotland) Act 2007 where subsection </span></span> <span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> (3) of that section applies; or </span></span> </span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11B-5-d"><span class="LegAddition">(d)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a Northern Irish adoption order, within the meaning of the Adoption and Children Act 2002, other than an order made by virtue of Article 14 of the Adoption (Northern Ireland) Order 1987 on the application of a married couple one of whom is the mother or the father of the child.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11B-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A relevant adoption order is an adoption order, within the meaning of section 46(1) of the Adoption and Children Act 2002, other than an order made—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11B-6-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">on an application under section 50 of that Act by a couple (within the meaning of that Act) one of whom is the mother or the father of the person to be adopted, or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11B-6-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">on an application under section 51(2) of that Act.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11B-7"><span class="LegAddition">(7)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A court may not make </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> activity direction in relation to an individual unless the individual is habitually resident in England and Wales; and a direction ceases to have effect if the individual subject to the direction ceases to be habitually resident in England and Wales.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-11C"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">11C</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">... Activity conditions</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11C-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">This section applies if in any family proceedings the court makes—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11C-1-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">a child arrangements order containing—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-11C-1-a-i"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(i)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">provision for a child to live with different persons at different times,</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-11C-1-a-ii"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(ii)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">provision regulating arrangements relating to with whom a child is to spend time or otherwise have contact, or</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-11C-1-a-iii"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(iii)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">provision regulating arrangements relating to when a child is to spend time or otherwise have contact with any person; or</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11C-1-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an order varying a child arrangements order so as to add, vary or omit provision of a kind mentioned in paragraph (a)(i), (ii) or (iii).</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11C-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order </span></span><span class="LegAddition"> may impose, or the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order </span></span><span class="LegAddition"> may be varied so as to impose, a condition </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(an “activity condition”) </span></span><span class="LegAddition"> requiring an individual falling within subsection (3) to take part in an activity that </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">would, in the court's opinion, help to establish, maintain or improve the involvement in the life of the child concerned of—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11C-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">that individual, or</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11C-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">another individual who is a party to the proceedings.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11C-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">An individual falls within this subsection if he is—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11C-3-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">for the purposes of the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> so made or varied, </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">a person</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> with whom the child concerned lives or is to live;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11C-3-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">a person</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> whose contact with the child concerned is provided for in that order; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11C-3-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a person upon whom that order imposes a condition under section 11(7)(b).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11C-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The condition is to specify the activity and the person providing the activity.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11C-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Subsections (5) and (6) of section 11A have effect as regards the activities that may be required by </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> activity condition as they have effect as regards the activities that may be required by </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> activity direction.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11C-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Subsection (2) has effect subject to the restrictions in sections 11D and 11E.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-11D"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">11D</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">... Activity conditions: further provision</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11D-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> may not impose </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an activity </span></span><span class="LegAddition"> condition on an individual who is a child unless the individual is a parent of the child concerned.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11D-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">If a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> is an excepted order (within the meaning given by section 11B(4)), it may not impose (and it may not be varied so as to impose) a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an activity</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> condition.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11D-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> may not impose </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an activity </span></span><span class="LegAddition"> condition on an individual unless the individual is habitually resident in England and Wales; and a condition ceases to have effect if the individual subject to the condition ceases to be habitually resident in England and Wales.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-11E"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">11E</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">...Activity directions and conditions: making</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11E-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Before making </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an activity</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> direction (or imposing </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an activity</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> condition by means of a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order </span></span><span class="LegAddition">), the court must satisfy itself as to the matters falling within subsections (2) to (4).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11E-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The first matter is that the activity proposed to be specified is appropriate in the circumstances of the case.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11E-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The second matter is that the person proposed to be specified as the provider of the activity is suitable to provide the activity.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11E-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The third matter is that the activity proposed to be specified is provided in a place to which the individual who would be subject to the direction (or the condition) can reasonably be expected to travel.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11E-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Before making such a direction (or such an order), the court must obtain and consider information about the individual who would be subject to the direction (or the condition) and the likely effect of the direction (or the condition) on him.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11E-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Information about the likely effect of the direction (or the condition) may, in particular, include information as to—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11E-6-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any conflict with the individual's religious beliefs;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11E-6-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any interference with the times (if any) at which he normally works or attends an educational establishment.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11E-7"><span class="LegAddition">(7)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The court may ask an officer of the Service or a Welsh family proceedings officer to provide the court with information as to the matters in subsections (2) to (5); and it shall be the duty of the officer of the Service or Welsh family proceedings officer to comply with any such request.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11E-8"><span class="LegAddition">(8)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> In this section “ </span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-specified"><span class="LegAddition">specified</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ” means specified in </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> activity direction (or in </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> activity condition). </span> </span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-11F"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">11F</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">... Activity directions and conditions: financial assistance</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11F-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision authorising him to make payments to assist individuals falling within subsection (2) in paying relevant charges or fees.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11F-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">An individual falls within this subsection if he is required by </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an activity</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> direction or condition to take part in an activity that </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">is expected to help to establish, maintain or improve the involvement of that or another individual in the life of </span></span><span class="LegAddition"> a child, not being a child ordinarily resident in Wales.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11F-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The National Assembly for Wales may by regulations make provision authorising it to make payments to assist individuals falling within subsection (4) in paying relevant charges or fees.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11F-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">An individual falls within this subsection if he is required by </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an activity</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> direction or condition to take part in an activity that </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">is expected to help to establish, maintain or improve the involvement of that or another individual in the life of </span></span><span class="LegAddition"> a child who is ordinarily resident in Wales.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11F-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A relevant charge or fee, in relation to an activity required by </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an activity</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> direction or condition, is a charge or fee in respect of the activity payable to the person providing the activity.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11F-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Regulations under this section may provide that no assistance is available to an individual unless—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11F-6-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the individual satisfies such conditions as regards his financial resources as may be set out in the regulations;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11F-6-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the activity in which the individual is required by </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an activity</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> direction or condition to take part is provided to him in England or Wales;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11F-6-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">where the activity in which the individual is required to take part is provided to him in England, it is provided by a person who is for the time being approved by the Secretary of State as a provider of activities required by </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an activity</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> direction or condition;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11F-6-d"><span class="LegAddition">(d)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">where the activity in which the individual is required to take part is provided to him in Wales, it is provided by a person who is for the time being approved by the National Assembly for Wales as a provider of activities required by a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an activity</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> direction or condition.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11F-7"><span class="LegAddition">(7)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Regulations under this section may make provision—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11F-7-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">as to the maximum amount of assistance that may be paid to or in respect of an individual as regards an activity in which he is required by a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an activity</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> direction or condition to take part;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11F-7-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">where the amount may vary according to an individual's financial resources, as to the method by which the amount is to be determined;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11F-7-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">authorising payments by way of assistance to be made directly to persons providing activities required by </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an activity</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> direction or condition.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-11G"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">11G</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">... Activity directions and conditions: monitoring</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11G-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">This section applies if in any family proceedings the court—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11G-1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">makes </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an activity </span></span><span class="LegAddition"> direction in relation to an individual, or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11G-1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">makes a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order </span></span><span class="LegAddition"> that imposes, or varies a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order </span></span><span class="LegAddition"> so as to impose, </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an activity </span></span><span class="LegAddition"> condition on an individual.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11G-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The court may on making the direction (or imposing the condition by means of a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order </span></span><span class="LegAddition">) ask an officer of the Service or a Welsh family proceedings officer—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11G-2-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">to monitor, or arrange for the monitoring of, the individual's compliance with the direction (or the condition);</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11G-2-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">to report to the court on any failure by the individual to comply with the direction (or the condition).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11G-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">It shall be the duty of the officer of the Service or Welsh family proceedings officer to comply with any request under subsection (2).</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-11H"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">11H</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Monitoring contact </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">and shared residence</span></span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11H-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">This section applies if in any family proceedings the court makes—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11H-1-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">a child arrangements order containing provision of a kind mentioned in section 11C(1)(a)(i), (ii) or (iii), or</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11H-1-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an order varying a child arrangements order so as to add, vary or omit provision of any of those kinds.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11H-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The court may ask an officer of the Service or a Welsh family proceedings officer—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11H-2-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">to monitor whether an individual falling within subsection (3) complies with </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">each provision of any of those kinds that is contained in the child arrangements order (or in the child arrangements order as varied); </span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11H-2-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">to report to the court on such matters relating to the individual's compliance as the court may specify in the request.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11H-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">An individual falls within this subsection if the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order </span></span><span class="LegAddition"> so made (or the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order </span></span><span class="LegAddition"> as so varied)—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11H-3-za"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(za)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">provides for the child concerned to live with different persons at different times and names the individual as one of those persons;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11H-3-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">imposes requirements on the individual with regard to the child concerned spending time or otherwise having contact with some other person;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11H-3-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">names the individual as a person with whom the child concerned is to spend time or otherwise have contact; or</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11H-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">If the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> (or the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> as varied) includes </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an activity</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> condition, a request under subsection (2) is to be treated as relating to the provisions of the order other than </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">the activity</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> condition.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11H-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The court may make a request under subsection (2)—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11H-5-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">on making the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order</span></span><span class="LegAddition">(or the order varying the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order</span></span><span class="LegAddition">), or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11H-5-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">at any time during the subsequent course of the proceedings as they relate to contact with the child concerned </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">or to the child's living arrangements</span></span><span class="LegAddition">.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11H-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">In making a request under subsection (2), the court is to specify the period for which the officer of the Service or Welsh family proceedings officer is to monitor compliance with the order; and the period specified may not exceed twelve months.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11H-7"><span class="LegAddition">(7)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">It shall be the duty of the officer of the Service or Welsh family proceedings officer to comply with any request under subsection (2).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11H-8"><span class="LegAddition">(8)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The court may order any individual falling within subsection (3) to take such steps as may be specified in the order with a view to enabling the officer of the Service or Welsh family proceedings officer to comply with the court's request under subsection (2).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11H-9"><span class="LegAddition">(9)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">But the court may not make an order under subsection (8) with respect to an individual who is a child unless he is a parent of the child with respect to whom the order falling within subsection (1) was made.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11H-10"><span class="LegAddition">(10)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A court may not make a request under subsection (2) in relation to a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> order that is an excepted order (within the meaning given by section 11B(4)).</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-11I"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">11I</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Child arrangements </span></span><span class="LegAddition"> orders: warning notices</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegRHS LegP1Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where the court makes (or varies) a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> order, it is to attach to the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> order (or the order varying the contact order) a notice warning of the consequences of failing to comply with the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> order.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-11J"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">11J</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Enforcement orders</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11J-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">This section applies if a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> with respect to a child has been made.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11J-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">If the court is satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that a person has failed to comply with </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">a provision of the child arrangements</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> order, it may make an order (an “enforcement order”) imposing on the person an unpaid work requirement.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11J-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">But the court may not make an enforcement order if it is satisfied that the person had a reasonable excuse for failing to comply with the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">provision </span></span><span class="LegAddition">.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11J-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The burden of proof as to the matter mentioned in subsection (3) lies on the person claiming to have had a reasonable excuse, and the standard of proof is the balance of probabilities.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11J-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The court may make an enforcement order in relation to the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order </span></span><span class="LegAddition"> only on the application of—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11J-5-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">a person</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> who is, for the purposes of the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order </span></span><span class="LegAddition">, the person with whom the child concerned lives or is to live;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11J-5-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">a person</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> whose contact with the child concerned is provided for in the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order </span></span><span class="LegAddition">;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11J-5-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any individual subject to a condition under section 11(7)(b) or </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an activity</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> condition imposed by the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order </span></span><span class="LegAddition">; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11J-5-d"><span class="LegAddition">(d)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the child concerned.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11J-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where the person proposing to apply for an enforcement order in relation to a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> order is the child concerned, the child must obtain the leave of the court before making such an application.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11J-7"><span class="LegAddition">(7)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The court may grant leave to the child concerned only if it is satisfied that he has sufficient understanding to make the proposed application.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11J-8"><span class="LegAddition">(8)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Subsection (2) has effect subject to the restrictions in sections 11K and 11L.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11J-9"><span class="LegAddition">(9)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The court may suspend an enforcement order for such period as it thinks fit.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11J-10"><span class="LegAddition">(10)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Nothing in this section prevents a court from making more than one enforcement order in relation to the same person on the same occasion.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11J-11"><span class="LegAddition">(11)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Proceedings in which any question of making an enforcement order, or any other question with respect to such an order, arises are to be regarded for the purposes of section 11(1) and (2) as proceedings in which a question arises with respect to a section 8 order.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11J-12"><span class="LegAddition">(12)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">In Schedule A1—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11J-12-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">Part 1 makes provision as regards an unpaid work requirement;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11J-12-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">Part 2 makes provision in relation to the revocation and amendment of enforcement orders and failure to comply with such orders.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11J-13">(13)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-11K"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">11K</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Enforcement orders: further provision</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11K-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A court may not make an enforcement order against a person in respect of a failure to comply with a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">provision of a child arrangements order </span></span><span class="LegAddition"> unless it is satisfied that before the failure occurred the person had been given (in accordance with rules of court) a copy of, or otherwise informed of the terms of—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11K-1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in the case of a failure to comply with </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">a provision of a child arrangements order where the order </span></span><span class="LegAddition"> was varied before the failure occurred, a notice under section 11I relating to the order varying </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">the child arrangements</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> order or, where more than one such order has been made, the last order preceding the failure in question;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11K-1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in any other case, a notice under section 11I relating to the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> order.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11K-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A court may not make an enforcement order against a person in respect of any failure to comply with a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">provision of a child arrangements</span></span><span class="LegAddition">order occurring before the person attained the age of 18.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11K-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A court may not make an enforcement order against a person in respect of a failure to comply with a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">provision of a child arrangements order where the child arrangements order</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> is an excepted order (within the meaning given by section 11B(4)).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11K-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A court may not make an enforcement order against a person unless the person is habitually resident in England and Wales; and an enforcement order ceases to have effect if the person subject to the order ceases to be habitually resident in England and Wales.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-11L"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">11L</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Enforcement orders: making</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11L-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Before making an enforcement order as regards a person in breach of </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">a provision of a child arrangements </span></span><span class="LegAddition"> order, the court must be satisfied that—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11L-1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">making the enforcement order proposed is necessary to secure the person's compliance with the</span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements </span></span><span class="LegAddition"> order or any </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements </span></span><span class="LegAddition"> order that has effect in its place;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11L-1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the likely effect on the person of the enforcement order proposed to be made is proportionate to the seriousness of the breach </span><span class="LegAddition">....</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11L-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Before making an enforcement order, the court must satisfy itself that provision for the person to work under an unpaid work requirement imposed by an enforcement order can be made in the local justice area in which the person in breach resides or will reside.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11L-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Before making an enforcement order as regards a person in breach of a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">provision of a child arrangements</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> order, the court must obtain and consider information about the person and the likely effect of the enforcement order on him.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11L-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Information about the likely effect of the enforcement order may, in particular, include information as to—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11L-4-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any conflict with the person's religious beliefs;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11L-4-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any interference with the times (if any) at which he normally works or attends an educational establishment.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11L-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A court that proposes to make an enforcement order may ask an officer of the Service or a Welsh family proceedings officer to provide the court with information as to the matters in subsections (2) and (3).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11L-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">It shall be the duty of the officer of the Service or Welsh family proceedings officer to comply with any request under this section.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11L-7"><span class="LegAddition">(7)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">In making an enforcement order in relation to a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> order, a court must take into account the welfare of the child who is the subject of the contact order.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-11M"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">11M</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Enforcement orders: monitoring</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11M-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">On making an enforcement order in relation to a person, the court is to ask an officer of the Service or a Welsh family proceedings officer—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11M-1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">to monitor, or arrange for the monitoring of, the person's compliance with the unpaid work requirement imposed by the order;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11M-1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">to report to the court if a report under paragraph 8 of Schedule A1 is made in relation to the person;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11M-1-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">to report to the court on such other matters relating to the person's compliance as may be specified in the request;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11M-1-d"><span class="LegAddition">(d)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">to report to the court if the person is, or becomes, unsuitable to perform work under the requirement.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11M-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">It shall be the duty of the officer of the Service or Welsh family proceedings officer to comply with any request under this section.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-11N"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">11N</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Enforcement orders: warning notices</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegRHS LegP1Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where the court makes an enforcement order, it is to attach to the order a notice warning of the consequences of failing to comply with the order.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-11O"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">11O</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Compensation for financial loss</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11O-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">This section applies if a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> order with respect to a child has been made.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11O-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">If the court is satisfied that—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11O-2-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">an individual has failed to comply with </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">a provision of the child arrangements</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> order, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11O-2-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a person falling within subsection (6) has suffered financial loss by reason of the breach,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">it may make an order requiring the individual in breach to pay the person compensation in respect of his financial loss.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11O-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">But the court may not make an order under subsection (2) if it is satisfied that the individual in breach had a reasonable excuse for failing to comply with the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">particular provision of the child arrangements</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> order.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11O-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The burden of proof as to the matter mentioned in subsection (3) lies on the individual claiming to have had a reasonable excuse.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11O-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">An order under subsection (2) may be made only on an application by the person who claims to have suffered financial loss.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11O-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A person falls within this subsection if he is—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11O-6-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">a person</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> who is, for the purposes of the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order</span></span><span class="LegAddition">, </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">a person</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> with whom the child concerned lives or is to live;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11O-6-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">a person</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> whose contact with the child concerned is provided for in the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order</span></span><span class="LegAddition">;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11O-6-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">an individual subject to a condition under section 11(7)(b) or </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an activity</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> condition imposed by the contact order; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11O-6-d"><span class="LegAddition">(d)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the child concerned.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11O-7"><span class="LegAddition">(7)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where the person proposing to apply for an order under subsection (2) is the child concerned, the child must obtain the leave of the court before making such an application.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11O-8"><span class="LegAddition">(8)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The court may grant leave to the child concerned only if it is satisfied that he has sufficient understanding to make the proposed application.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11O-9"><span class="LegAddition">(9)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The amount of compensation is to be determined by the court, but may not exceed the amount of the applicant's financial loss.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11O-10"><span class="LegAddition">(10)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">In determining the amount of compensation payable by the individual in breach, the court must take into account the individual's financial circumstances.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11O-11"><span class="LegAddition">(11)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">An amount ordered to be paid as compensation may be recovered by the applicant as a civil debt due to him.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11O-12"><span class="LegAddition">(12)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Subsection (2) has effect subject to the restrictions in section 11P.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11O-13"><span class="LegAddition">(13)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Proceedings in which any question of making an order under subsection (2) arises are to be regarded for the purposes of section 11(1) and (2) as proceedings in which a question arises with respect to a section 8 order.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11O-14"><span class="LegAddition">(14)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">In exercising its powers under this section, a court is to take into account the welfare of the child concerned.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-11P"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">11P</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Orders under section 11O(2): further provision</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11P-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A court may not make an order under section 11O(2) requiring an individual to pay compensation in respect of a failure by him to comply with a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">provision of a child arrangements order</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> unless it is satisfied that before the failure occurred the individual had been given (in accordance with rules of court) a copy of, or otherwise informed of the terms of—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11P-1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in the case of a failure to comply with </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution"> a provision of a child arrangements order where the order</span></span><span class="LegAddition">was varied before the failure occurred, a notice under section 11I relating to the order varying </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">the child arrangements</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> order or, where more than one such order has been made, the last order preceding the failure in question;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-11P-1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in any other case, a notice under section 11I relating to the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> order.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11P-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A court may not make an order under section 11O(2) requiring an individual to pay compensation in respect of a failure by him to comply with a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">provision of a child arrangements </span></span><span class="LegAddition"> order where the failure occurred before the individual attained the age of 18.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-11P-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A court may not make an order under section 11O(2) requiring an individual to pay compensation in respect of a failure by him to comply with a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">provision of a child arrangements order where the child arrangements order</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> is an excepted order (within the meaning given by section 11B(4)).</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-12"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">12</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegSubstitution">Child arrangements</span> orders and parental responsibility.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-12-1"><span class="LegSubstitution">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">Where—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-12-1-a"><span class="LegSubstitution">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">the court makes a child arrangements order with respect to a child,</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-12-1-b"><span class="LegSubstitution">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">the father of the child, or a woman who is a parent of the child by virtue of section 43 of the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 2008, is named in the order as a person with whom the child is to live, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-12-1-c"><span class="LegSubstitution">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">the father, or the woman, would not otherwise have parental responsibility for the child,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">the court must also make an order under section 4 giving the father, or under section 4ZA giving the woman, that responsibility.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-12-1A"><span class="LegSubstitution">(1A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">Where—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-12-1A-a"><span class="LegSubstitution">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">the court makes a child arrangements order with respect to a child,</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-12-1A-b"><span class="LegSubstitution">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">the father of the child, or a woman who is a parent of the child by virtue of section 43 of the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 2008, is named in the order as a person with whom the child is to spend time or otherwise have contact but is not named in the order as a person with whom the child is to live, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-12-1A-c"><span class="LegSubstitution">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">the father, or the woman, would not otherwise have parental responsibility for the child,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">the court must decide whether it would be appropriate, in view of the provision made in the order with respect to the father or the woman, for him or her to have parental responsibility for the child and, if it decides that it would be appropriate for the father or the woman to have that responsibility, must also make an order under section 4 giving him, or under section 4ZA giving her, that responsibility.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-12-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where the court makes a <span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order and a person who is not a</span> parent or guardian of the child concerned <span class="LegAddition"> is named in the order as a person with whom the child is to live, </span>that person shall have parental responsibility for the child while the <span class="LegSubstitution">order remains in force so far as providing for the child to live with that person</span>.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-12-2A"><span class="LegAddition">(2A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where the court makes a child arrangements order and—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-12-2A-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a person who is not the parent or guardian of the child concerned is named in the order as a person with whom the child is to spend time or otherwise have contact, but</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-12-2A-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the person is not named in the order as a person with whom the child is to live,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">the court may provide in the order for the person to have parental responsibility for the child while paragraphs (a) and (b) continue to be met in the person's case.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-12-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a person has parental responsibility for a child as a result of subsection (2) <span class="LegAddition">or (2A) </span>, he shall not have the right—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-12-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-12-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">to agree, or refuse to agree, to the making of an adoption order, or an order under <span class="LegAddition">section 84 of the Adoption and Children Act 2002</span>, with respect to the child; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-12-3-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">to appoint a guardian for the child.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-12-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where subsection (1) ... requires the court to make an order under section 4 <span class="LegAddition">or 4ZA</span> <span class="LegSubstitution">in respect of a</span><span class="LegSubstitution">parent</span> of a child, the court shall not bring that order to an end at any time while the <span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order concerned remains in force so far as providing for the child to live with that parent</span>.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-12-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-12-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-13"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">13</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Change of child’s name or removal from jurisdiction.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-13-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a <span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order to which subsection (4) applies</span> is in force with respect to a child, no person may—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-13-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">cause the child to be known by a new surname; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-13-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">remove him from the United Kingdom;</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">without either the written consent of every person who has parental responsibility for the child or the leave of the court.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-13-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Subsection (1)(b) does not prevent the removal of a child, for a period of less than one month, by <span class="LegSubstitution">a person named in the child arrangements order as a person with whom the child is to live </span>.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-13-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In making a <span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order to which subsection (4) applies, </span> the court may grant the leave required by subsection (1)(b), either generally or for specified purposes.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-13-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">This subsection applies to a child arrangements order if the arrangements regulated by the order consist of, or include, arrangements which relate to either or both of the following—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-13-4-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">with whom the child concerned is to live, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-13-4-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">when the child is to live with any person.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-14"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">14</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Enforcement of residence orders.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegRHS LegP1Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
</p><div class="LegClearPblock"/><h3 class="LegPblock"><span class="LegPblockTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Special guardianship</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-14A"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">14A</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst"><span class="LegAddition"> Special guardianship orders</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14A-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> A “ </span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-special-guardianship-order"><span class="LegAddition">special guardianship order</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ” is an order appointing one or more individuals to be a child’s “ </span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-special-guardian"><span class="LegAddition">special guardian</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ” (or special guardians). </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14A-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A special guardian—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14A-2-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">must be aged eighteen or over; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14A-2-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">must not be a parent of the child in question,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">and subsections (3) to (6) are to be read in that light.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14A-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The court may make a special guardianship order with respect to any child on the application of an individual who—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14A-3-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">is entitled to make such an application with respect to the child; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14A-3-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">has obtained the leave of the court to make the application,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">or on the joint application of more than one such individual.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14A-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Section 9(3) applies in relation to an application for leave to apply for a special guardianship order as it applies in relation to an application for leave to apply for a section 8 order.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14A-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The individuals who are entitled to apply for a special guardianship order with respect to a child are—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14A-5-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any guardian of the child;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14A-5-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any individual </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">who is named in a child arrangements order as a person with whom the child is to live;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14A-5-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any individual listed in subsection (5)(b) or (c) of section 10 (as read with subsection (10) of that section);</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14A-5-d"><span class="LegAddition">(d)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a local authority foster parent with whom the child has lived for a period of at least one year immediately preceding the application.</span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14A-5-e"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(e)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">a relative with whom the child has lived for a period of at least one year immediately preceding the application.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14A-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The court may also make a special guardianship order with respect to a child in any family proceedings in which a question arises with respect to the welfare of the child if—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14A-6-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">an application for the order has been made by an individual who falls within subsection (3)(a) or (b) (or more than one such individual jointly); or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14A-6-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the court considers that a special guardianship order should be made even though no such application has been made.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14A-7"><span class="LegAddition">(7)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">No individual may make an application under subsection (3) or (6)(a) unless, before the beginning of the period of three months ending with the date of the application, he has given written notice of his intention to make the application—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14A-7-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">if the child in question is being looked after by a local authority, to that local authority, or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14A-7-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">otherwise, to the local authority in whose area the individual is ordinarily resident.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14A-8"><span class="LegAddition">(8)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">On receipt of such a notice, the local authority must investigate the matter and prepare a report for the court dealing with—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14A-8-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the suitability of the applicant to be a special guardian;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14A-8-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">such matters (if any) as may be prescribed by the Secretary of State; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14A-8-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any other matter which the local authority consider to be relevant.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14A-9"><span class="LegAddition">(9)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The court may itself ask a local authority to conduct such an investigation and prepare such a report, and the local authority must do so.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14A-10"><span class="LegAddition">(10)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The local authority may make such arrangements as they see fit for any person to act on their behalf in connection with conducting an investigation or preparing a report referred to in subsection (8) or (9).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14A-11"><span class="LegAddition">(11)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The court may not make a special guardianship order unless it has received a report dealing with the matters referred to in subsection (8).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14A-12"><span class="LegAddition">(12)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Subsections (8) and (9) of section 10 apply in relation to special guardianship orders as they apply in relation to section 8 orders.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14A-13"><span class="LegAddition">(13)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">This section is subject to section 29(5) and (6) of the Adoption and Children Act 2002.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-14B"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">14B</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition"> Special guardianship orders: making</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14B-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Before making a special guardianship order, the court must consider whether, if the order were made—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14B-1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order containing contact provision</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> should also be made with respect to the child, </span><span class="LegAddition">. . . </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14B-1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any section 8 order in force with respect to the child should be varied or discharged.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14B-1-c"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">where a </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">provision contained in a child arrangements order </span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> made with respect to the child is not discharged, any enforcement order relating to </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">that provision </span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> should be revoked, and</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14B-1-d"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(d)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">where an activity direction has been made—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-14B-1-d-i"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(i)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">in proceedings for the making, variation or discharge of a child arrangements order with respect to the child, or</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-14B-1-d-ii"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(ii)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">in other proceedings that relate to such an order,</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">that direction should be discharged.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14B-1A"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(1A)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">In subsection (1) “</span></span><span class="LegTerm"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">contact provision</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">” means provision which regulates arrangements relating to—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14B-1A-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">with whom a child is to spend time or otherwise have contact, or</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14B-1A-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">when a child is to spend time or otherwise have contact with any person;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">but in paragraphs (a) and (b) a reference to spending time or otherwise having contact with a person is to doing that otherwise than as a result of living with the person.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14B-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">On making a special guardianship order, the court may also—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14B-2-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">give leave for the child to be known by a new surname;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14B-2-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">grant the leave required by section 14C(3)(b), either generally or for specified purposes.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-14C"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">14C</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition"> Special guardianship orders: effect</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14C-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The effect of a special guardianship order is that while the order remains in force—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14C-1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a special guardian appointed by the order has parental responsibility for the child in respect of whom it is made; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14C-1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">subject to any other order in force with respect to the child under this Act, a special guardian is entitled to exercise parental responsibility to the exclusion of any other person with parental responsibility for the child (apart from another special guardian).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14C-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Subsection (1) does not affect—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14C-2-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the operation of any enactment or rule of law which requires the consent of more than one person with parental responsibility in a matter affecting the child; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14C-2-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any rights which a parent of the child has in relation to the child’s adoption or placement for adoption.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14C-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">While a special guardianship order is in force with respect to a child, no person may—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14C-3-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">cause the child to be known by a new surname; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14C-3-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">remove him from the United Kingdom,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">without either the written consent of every person who has parental responsibility for the child or the leave of the court.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14C-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Subsection (3)(b) does not prevent the removal of a child, for a period of less than three months, by a special guardian of his.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14C-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">If the child with respect to whom a special guardianship order is in force dies, his special guardian must take reasonable steps to give notice of that fact to—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14C-5-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">each parent of the child with parental responsibility; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14C-5-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">each guardian of the child,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">but if the child has more than one special guardian, and one of them has taken such steps in relation to a particular parent or guardian, any other special guardian need not do so as respects that parent or guardian.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14C-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">This section is subject to section 29(7) of the Adoption and Children Act 2002.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-14D"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">14D</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition"> Special guardianship orders: variation and discharge</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14D-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The court may vary or discharge a special guardianship order on the application of—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14D-1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the special guardian (or any of them, if there are more than one);</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14D-1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any parent or guardian of the child concerned;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14D-1-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any individual </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">who is named in a child arrangements order as a person with whom the child is to live;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14D-1-d"><span class="LegAddition">(d)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any individual not falling within any of paragraphs (a) to (c) who has, or immediately before the making of the special guardianship order had, parental responsibility for the child;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14D-1-e"><span class="LegAddition">(e)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the child himself; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14D-1-f"><span class="LegAddition">(f)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a local authority designated in a care order with respect to the child.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14D-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">In any family proceedings in which a question arises with respect to the welfare of a child with respect to whom a special guardianship order is in force, the court may also vary or discharge the special guardianship order if it considers that the order should be varied or discharged, even though no application has been made under subsection (1).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14D-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The following must obtain the leave of the court before making an application under subsection (1)—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14D-3-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the child;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14D-3-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any parent or guardian of his;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14D-3-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any step-parent of his who has acquired, and has not lost, parental responsibility for him by virtue of section 4A;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14D-3-d"><span class="LegAddition">(d)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any individual falling within subsection (1)(d) who immediately before the making of the special guardianship order had, but no longer has, parental responsibility for him.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14D-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where the person applying for leave to make an application under subsection (1) is the child, the court may only grant leave if it is satisfied that he has sufficient understanding to make the proposed application under subsection (1).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14D-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The court may not grant leave to a person falling within subsection (3)(b)(c) or (d) unless it is satisfied that there has been a significant change in circumstances since the making of the special guardianship order.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-14E"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">14E</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition"> Special guardianship orders: supplementary</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14E-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">In proceedings in which any question of making, varying or discharging a special guardianship order arises, the court shall (in the light of any </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">provision in rules of court that is of the kind mentioned in section 11(2)(a) or (b))</span></span><span class="LegAddition">—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14E-1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">draw up a timetable with a view to determining the question without delay; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14E-1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">give such directions as it considers appropriate for the purpose of ensuring, so far as is reasonably practicable, that the timetable is adhered to.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14E-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Subsection (1) applies also in relation to proceedings in which any other question with respect to a special guardianship order arises.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14E-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The power to make rules in subsection (2) of section 11 applies for the purposes of this section as it applies for the purposes of that.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14E-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A special guardianship order, or an order varying one, may contain provisions which are to have effect for a specified period.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14E-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Section 11(7) (apart from paragraph (c)) applies in relation to special guardianship orders and orders varying them as it applies in relation to section 8 orders.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-14F"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">14F</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition"> Special guardianship support services</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14F-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Each local authority must make arrangements for the provision within their area of special guardianship support services, which means—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14F-1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">counselling, advice and information; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14F-1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">such other services as are prescribed,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">in relation to special guardianship.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14F-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The power to make regulations under subsection (1)(b) is to be exercised so as to secure that local authorities provide financial support.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14F-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">At the request of any of the following persons—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14F-3-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a child with respect to whom a special guardianship order is in force;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14F-3-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a special guardian;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14F-3-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a parent;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14F-3-d"><span class="LegAddition">(d)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any other person who falls within a prescribed description,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">a local authority may carry out an assessment of that person’s needs for special guardianship support services (but, if the Secretary of State so provides in regulations, they must do so if he is a person of a prescribed description, or if his case falls within a prescribed description, or if both he and his case fall within prescribed descriptions).</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14F-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A local authority may, at the request of any other person, carry out an assessment of that person’s needs for special guardianship support services.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14F-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where, as a result of an assessment, a local authority decide that a person has needs for special guardianship support services, they must then decide whether to provide any such services to that person.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14F-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">If—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14F-6-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a local authority decide to provide any special guardianship support services to a person, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14F-6-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the circumstances fall within a prescribed description,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">the local authority must prepare a plan in accordance with which special guardianship support services are to be provided to him, and keep the plan under review.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14F-7"><span class="LegAddition">(7)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about assessments, preparing and reviewing plans, the provision of special guardianship support services in accordance with plans and reviewing the provision of special guardianship support services.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14F-8"><span class="LegAddition">(8)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The regulations may in particular make provision—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14F-8-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">about the type of assessment which is to be carried out, or the way in which an assessment is to be carried out;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14F-8-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">about the way in which a plan is to be prepared;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14F-8-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">about the way in which, and the time at which, a plan or the provision of special guardianship support services is to be reviewed;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14F-8-d"><span class="LegAddition">(d)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">about the considerations to which a local authority are to have regard in carrying out an assessment or review or preparing a plan;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14F-8-e"><span class="LegAddition">(e)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">as to the circumstances in which a local authority may provide special guardianship support services subject to conditions (including conditions as to payment for the support or the repayment of financial support);</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14F-8-f"><span class="LegAddition">(f)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">as to the consequences of conditions imposed by virtue of paragraph (e) not being met (including the recovery of any financial support provided);</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14F-8-g"><span class="LegAddition">(g)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">as to the circumstances in which this section may apply to a local authority in respect of persons who are outside that local authority’s area;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14F-8-h"><span class="LegAddition">(h)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">as to the circumstances in which a local authority may recover from another local authority the expenses of providing special guardianship support services to any person.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14F-9"><span class="LegAddition">(9)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A local authority may provide special guardianship support services (or any part of them) by securing their provision by—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14F-9-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">another local authority; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-14F-9-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a person within a description prescribed in regulations of persons who may provide special guardianship support services,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">and may also arrange with any such authority or person for that other authority or that person to carry out the local authority’s functions in relation to assessments under this section.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14F-10"><span class="LegAddition">(10)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A local authority may carry out an assessment of the needs of any person for the purposes of this section at the same time as an assessment of his needs is made under any other provision of this Act or under any other enactment.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14F-11"><span class="LegAddition">(11)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Section 27 (co-operation between authorities) applies in relation to the exercise of functions of a local authority </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">in England</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> under this section as it applies in relation to the exercise of functions of a local authority under Part 3 </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">and see sections 164 and 164A of the Social Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014 for provision about co-operation between local authorities in Wales and other bodies.</span></span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-14G"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">14G</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition"> Special guardianship support services: representations</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14G-1"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegRepeal">(1)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegRepeal">Every local authority shall establish a procedure for considering representations (including complaints) made to them by any person to whom they may provide special guardianship support services about the discharge of their functions under section 14F in relation to him.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14G-2"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegRepeal">(2)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegRepeal">Regulations may be made by the Secretary of State imposing time limits on the making of representations under subsection (1).</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-14G-3"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegRepeal">(3)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegRepeal">In considering representations under subsection (1), a local authority shall comply with regulations (if any) made by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this subsection.</span></span></span> </p><div class="LegClearPblock"/><h3 class="LegPblock"><span class="LegPblockTitle"> Financial relief<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-15"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">15</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst"> Orders for financial relief with respect to children.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-15-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Schedule 1 (which consists primarily of the re-enactment, with consequential amendments and minor modifications, of provisions of <span class="LegAddition">section 6 of Family Law Reform Act 1969</span> the Guardianship of Minors Acts 1971 and 1973, the Children Act 1975 and of sections 15 and 16 of the Family Law Reform Act 1987) makes provision in relation to financial relief for children.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-15-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><div class="LegClearPblock"/><h3 class="LegPblock"><span class="LegPblockTitle"> Family assistance orders<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-16"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">16</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst"> Family assistance orders.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-16-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where, in any family proceedings, the court has power to make an order under this Part with respect to any child, it may (whether or not it makes such an order) make an order requiring—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-16-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">an officer of the Service</span><span class="LegAddition">or a Welsh family proceedings officer</span> to be made available; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-16-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">a local authority to make an officer of the authority available,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">to advise, assist and (where appropriate) befriend any person named in the order.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-16-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The persons who may be named in an order under this section (“a family assistance order”) are—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-16-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any parent <span class="LegAddition">, guardian or special guardian</span> of the child;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-16-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any person with whom the child is living or <span class="LegSubstitution">who is named in a child arrangements order as a person with whom the child is to live, spend time or otherwise have contact ;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-16-2-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the child himself.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-16-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">No court may make a family assistance order unless—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-16-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-16-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">it has obtained the consent of every person to be named in the order other than the child.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-16-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A family assistance order may direct—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-16-4-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the person named in the order; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-16-4-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">such of the persons named in the order as may be specified in the order,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">to take such steps as may be so specified with a view to enabling the officer concerned to be kept informed of the address of any person named in the order and to be allowed to visit any such person.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-16-4A"><span class="LegAddition">(4A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">If the court makes a family assistance order with respect to a child and the order is to be in force at the same time as a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">contact provision contained in a child arrangements order </span></span><span class="LegAddition"> made with respect to the child, the family assistance order may direct the officer concerned to give advice and assistance as regards establishing, improving and maintaining contact to such of the persons named in the order as may be specified in the order.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-16-4B"><span class="LegAddition">(4B)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> In subsection (4A) “ </span><span class="LegTerm"><span class="LegAddition">contact provision</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ” means provision which regulates arrangements relating to— </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-16-4B-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">with whom a child is to spend time or otherwise have contact, or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-16-4B-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">when a child is to spend time or otherwise have contact with any person.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-16-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Unless it specifies a shorter period, a family assistance order shall have effect for a period of <span class="LegSubstitution">twelve months</span> beginning with the day on which it is made.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-16-6"><span class="LegSubstitution">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">If the court makes a family assistance order with respect to a child and the order is to be in force at the same time as a section 8 order made with respect to the child, the family assistance order may direct the officer concerned to report to the court on such matters relating to the section 8 order as the court may require (including the question whether the section 8 order ought to be varied or discharged).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-16-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A family assistance order shall not be made so as to require a local authority to make an officer of theirs available unless—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-16-7-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the authority agree; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-16-7-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the child concerned lives or will live within their area.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-16-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-16-9">(9)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-16A"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">16A</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Risk assessments</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-16A-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">This section applies to the following functions of officers of the Service or Welsh family proceedings officers—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-16A-1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any function in connection with family proceedings in which the court has power to make an order under this Part with respect to a child or in which a question with respect to such an order arises;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-16A-1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any function in connection with an order made by the court in such proceedings.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-16A-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">If, in carrying out any function to which this section applies, an officer of the Service or a Welsh family proceedings officer is given cause to suspect that the child concerned is at risk of harm, he must—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-16A-2-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">make a risk assessment in relation to the child, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-16A-2-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">provide the risk assessment to the court.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-16A-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A risk assessment, in relation to a child who is at risk of suffering harm of a particular sort, is an assessment of the risk of that harm being suffered by the child.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="part-III"/><div class="LegClearPart"/><h2 class="LegPart"><span class="LegPartNo">Part III<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England, Wales and Scotland"><span class="btr"/>E+W+S<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span><span class="LegPartTitle"><span class="LegSubstitution">SUPPORT FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES PROVIDED BY LOCAL AUTHORITIES IN ENGLAND</span></span></h2><h3 class="LegPblockFirst"><span class="LegPblockTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Application to local authorities in England</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England, Wales and Scotland"><span class="btr"/>E+W+S<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-16B"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">16B.</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst"><span class="LegAddition">Application to local authorities in England</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England, Wales and Scotland"><span class="btr"/>E+W+S<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-16B-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">This Part applies in relation to local authorities in England.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-16B-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Accordingly, unless the contrary intention appears, a reference in this Part to a local authority means a local authority in England.</span></span> </p><div class="LegClearPblock"/><h3 class="LegPblock"><span class="LegPblockTitle">Provision of services for children and their families<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England, Wales and Scotland"><span class="btr"/>E+W+S<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-17"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">17</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst"> Provision of services for children in need, their families and others.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">It shall be the general duty of every local authority (in addition to the other duties imposed on them by this Part)—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">to safeguard and promote the welfare of children within their area who are in need; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">so far as is consistent with that duty, to promote the upbringing of such children by their families,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">by providing a range and level of services appropriate to those children’s needs.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">For the purpose principally of facilitating the discharge of their general duty under this section, every local authority shall have the specific duties and powers set out in Part 1 of Schedule 2.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any service provided by an authority in the exercise of functions conferred on them by this section may be provided for the family of a particular child in need or for any member of his family, if it is provided with a view to safeguarding or promoting the child’s welfare.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The <span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span> may by order amend any provision of Part I of Schedule 2 or add any further duty or power to those for the time being mentioned there.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17-4A"><span class="LegAddition">(4A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Before determining what (if any) services to provide for a particular child in need in the exercise of functions conferred on them by this section, a local authority shall, so far as is reasonably practicable and consistent with the child’s welfare—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17-4A-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">ascertain the child’s wishes and feelings regarding the provision of those services; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17-4A-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">give due consideration (having regard to his age and understanding) to such wishes and feelings of the child as they have been able to ascertain.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Every local authority—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17-5-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">shall facilitate the provision by others (including in particular voluntary organisations) of services which <span class="LegSubstitution">it is a function of the authority</span> to provide by virtue of this section, or section 18, 20, <span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">22A to 22C</span></span><span class="LegAddition">, 23B to 23D, 24A or 24B</span>; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17-5-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">may make such arrangements as they see fit for any person to act on their behalf in the provision of any such service.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The services provided by a local authority in the exercise of functions conferred on them by this section may include <span class="LegAddition">providing accommodation and</span> giving assistance in kind or . . . in cash.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Assistance may be unconditional or subject to conditions as to the repayment of the assistance or of its value (in whole or in part).</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Before giving any assistance or imposing any conditions, a local authority shall have regard to the means of the child concerned and of each of his parents.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17-9">(9)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">No person shall be liable to make any repayment of assistance or of its value at any time when he is in receipt <span class="LegAddition">of universal credit (except in such circumstances as may be prescribed),</span> of income support <span class="LegAddition">under</span><span class="LegAddition"> Part VII of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992,</span><span class="LegAddition"> of any element of child tax credit other than the family element, of working tax credit</span><span class="LegSubstitution">, of an income-based jobseeker's allowance or of an income-related employment and support allowance</span>.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17-10">(10)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">For the purposes of this Part a child shall be taken to be in need if—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17-10-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">he is unlikely to achieve or maintain, or to have the opportunity of achieving or maintaining, a reasonable standard of health or development without the provision for him of services by a local authority under this Part;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17-10-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">his health or development is likely to be significantly impaired, or further impaired, without the provision for him of such services; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17-10-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">he is disabled,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">and “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-family">family</span>”, in relation to such a child, includes any person who has parental responsibility for the child and any other person with whom he has been living.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17-11">(11)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">For the purposes of this Part, a child is disabled if he is blind, deaf or dumb or suffers from mental disorder of any kind or is substantially and permanently handicapped by illness, injury or congenital deformity or such other disability as may be prescribed; and in this Part—</span> </p><ul class="LegTabbedDef LegUnorderedList"><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-development">development</span>” means physical, intellectual, emotional, social or behavioural development; and
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-health">health</span>” means physical or mental health.
</p></li></ul><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17-12"><span class="LegAddition">(12)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The Treasury may by regulations prescribe circumstances in which a person is to be treated for the purposes of this Part (or for such of those purposes as are prescribed) as in receipt of any element of child tax credit other than the family element or of working tax credit.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17-13"><span class="LegAddition">(13)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The duties imposed on a local authority by virtue of this section do not apply in relation to a child in the authority’s area who is being looked after by a local authority in Wales in accordance with Part 6 of the Social Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-17ZA"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">17ZA</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> <span class="LegAddition"> Young carers' needs assessments </span><span class="LegAddition"> ... </span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England, Wales and Scotland"><span class="btr"/>E+W+S<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZA-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> A local authority </span><span class="LegAddition"> ... must assess whether a young carer within their area has needs for support and, if so, what those needs are, if— </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZA-1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">it appears to the authority that the young carer may have needs for support, or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZA-1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the authority receive a request from the young carer or a parent of the young carer to assess the young carer's needs for support.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZA-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> An assessment under subsection (1) is referred to in this Part as a “</span><span class="LegTerm"><span class="LegAddition">young carer's needs assessment</span></span><span class="LegAddition">”. </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZA-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> In this Part “</span><span class="LegTerm"><span class="LegAddition">young carer</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” means a person under 18 who provides or intends to provide care for another person (but this is qualified by section 17ZB(3)). </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZA-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Subsection (1) does not apply in relation to a young carer if the local authority have previously carried out a care-related assessment of the young carer in relation to the same person cared for.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZA-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">But subsection (1) does apply (and so a young carer's needs assessment must be carried out) if it appears to the authority that the needs or circumstances of the young carer or the person cared for have changed since the last care-related assessment.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZA-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> “</span><span class="LegTerm"><span class="LegAddition">Care-related assessment</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” means— </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZA-6-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a young carer's needs assessment;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZA-6-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">an assessment under any of the following—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-17ZA-6-b-i"><span class="LegAddition">(i)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">section 1 of the Carers (Recognition and Services) Act 1995;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-17ZA-6-b-ii"><span class="LegAddition">(ii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">section 1 of the Carers and Disabled Children Act 2000;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-17ZA-6-b-iii"><span class="LegAddition">(iii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-17ZA-6-b-iv"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(iv)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">Part 1 of the Care Act 2014.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZA-7"><span class="LegAddition">(7)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A young carer's needs assessment must include an assessment of whether it is appropriate for the young carer to provide, or continue to provide, care for the person in question, in the light of the young carer's needs for support, other needs and wishes.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZA-8"><span class="LegAddition">(8)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A local authority, in carrying out a young carer's needs assessment, must have regard to—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZA-8-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the extent to which the young carer is participating in or wishes to participate in education, training or recreation, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZA-8-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the extent to which the young carer works or wishes to work.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZA-9"><span class="LegAddition">(9)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A local authority, in carrying out a young carer's needs assessment, must involve—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZA-9-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the young carer,</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZA-9-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the young carer's parents, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZA-9-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any person who the young carer or a parent of the young carer requests the authority to involve.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZA-10"><span class="LegAddition">(10)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A local authority that have carried out a young carer's needs assessment must give a written record of the assessment to—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZA-10-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the young carer,</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZA-10-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the young carer's parents, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZA-10-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any person to whom the young carer or a parent of the young carer requests the authority to give a copy.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZA-11"><span class="LegAddition">(11)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where the person cared for is under 18, the written record must state whether the local authority consider him or her to be a child in need.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZA-12"><span class="LegAddition">(12)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> A local authority </span><span class="LegAddition"> ... must take reasonable steps to identify the extent to which there are young carers within their area who have needs for support.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-17ZB"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">17ZB</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Young carers' needs assessments: supplementary</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England, Wales and Scotland"><span class="btr"/>E+W+S<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZB-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">This section applies for the purposes of section 17ZA.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZB-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> “ </span><span class="LegTerm"><span class="LegAddition">Parent</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ”, in relation to a young carer, includes— </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZB-2-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a parent of the young carer who does not have parental responsibility for the young carer, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZB-2-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a person who is not a parent of the young carer but who has parental responsibility for the young carer.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZB-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A person is not a young carer if the person provides or intends to provide care—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZB-3-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">under or by virtue of a contract, or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZB-3-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">as voluntary work.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZB-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">But in a case where the local authority consider that the relationship between the person cared for and the person under 18 providing or intending to provide care is such that it would be appropriate for the person under 18 to be regarded as a young carer, that person is to be regarded as such (and subsection (3) is therefore to be ignored in that case).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZB-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The references in section 17ZA and this section to providing care include a reference to providing practical or emotional support.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZB-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where a local authority—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZB-6-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">are required to carry out a young carer's needs assessment, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZB-6-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">are required or have decided to carry out some other assessment of the young carer or of the person cared for;</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">the local authority may, subject to subsection (7), combine the assessments.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZB-7"><span class="LegAddition">(7)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A young carer's needs assessment may be combined with an assessment of the person cared for only if the young carer and the person cared for agree.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZB-8"><span class="LegAddition">(8)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The Secretary of State may by regulations make further provision about carrying out a young carer's needs assessment; the regulations may, in particular—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZB-8-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">specify matters to which a local authority is to have regard in carrying out a young carer's needs assessment;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZB-8-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">specify matters which a local authority is to determine in carrying out a young carer's needs assessment;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZB-8-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">make provision about the manner in which a young carer's needs assessment is to be carried out;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZB-8-d"><span class="LegAddition">(d)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">make provision about the form a young carer's needs assessment is to take.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZB-9"><span class="LegAddition">(9)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The Secretary of State may by regulations amend the list in section 17ZA(6)(b) so as to—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZB-9-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">add an entry,</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZB-9-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">remove an entry, or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZB-9-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">vary an entry.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-17ZC"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">17ZC</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Consideration of young carers' needs assessments</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England, Wales and Scotland"><span class="btr"/>E+W+S<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegRHS LegP1Text"><span class="LegAddition">A local authority that carry out a young carer's needs assessment must consider the assessment and decide—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZC-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">whether the young carer has needs for support in relation to the care which he or she provides or intends to provide;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZC-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">if so, whether those needs could be satisfied (wholly or partly) by services which the authority may provide under section 17; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZC-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">if they could be so satisfied, whether or not to provide any such services in relation to the young carer.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-17ZD"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">17ZD</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> <span class="LegAddition"> Parent carers' needs assessments </span><span class="LegAddition"> ... </span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England, Wales and Scotland"><span class="btr"/>E+W+S<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZD-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> A local authority </span><span class="LegAddition"> ... must, if the conditions in subsections (3) and (4) are met, assess whether a parent carer within their area has needs for support and, if so, what those needs are. </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZD-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> In this Part “</span><span class="LegTerm"><span class="LegAddition">parent carer</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” means a person aged 18 or over who provides or intends to provide care for a disabled child for whom the person has parental responsibility. </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZD-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The first condition is that—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZD-3-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">it appears to the authority that the parent carer may have needs for support, or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZD-3-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the authority receive a request from the parent carer to assess the parent carer's needs for support.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZD-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The second condition is that the local authority are satisfied that the disabled child cared for and the disabled child's family are persons for whom they may provide or arrange for the provision of services under section 17.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZD-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> An assessment under subsection (1) is referred to in this Part as a “</span><span class="LegTerm"><span class="LegAddition">parent carer's needs assessment</span></span><span class="LegAddition">”. </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZD-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Subsection (1) does not apply in relation to a parent carer if the local authority have previously carried out a care-related assessment of the parent carer in relation to the same disabled child cared for.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZD-7"><span class="LegAddition">(7)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">But subsection (1) does apply (and so a parent carer's needs assessment must be carried out) if it appears to the authority that the needs or circumstances of the parent carer or the disabled child cared for have changed since the last care-related assessment.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZD-8"><span class="LegAddition">(8)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> “</span><span class="LegTerm"><span class="LegAddition">Care-related assessment</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” means— </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZD-8-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a parent carer's needs assessment;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZD-8-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">an assessment under any of the following—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-17ZD-8-b-i"><span class="LegAddition">(i)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">section 1 of the Carers (Recognition and Services) Act 1995;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-17ZD-8-b-ii"><span class="LegAddition">(ii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">section 6 of the Carers and Disabled Children Act 2000;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-17ZD-8-b-iii"><span class="LegAddition">(iii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-17ZD-8-b-iv"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(iv)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">Part 1 of the Care Act 2014.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZD-9"><span class="LegAddition">(9)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A parent carer's needs assessment must include an assessment of whether it is appropriate for the parent carer to provide, or continue to provide, care for the disabled child, in the light of the parent carer's needs for support, other needs and wishes.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZD-10"><span class="LegAddition">(10)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A local authority in carrying out a parent carer's needs assessment must have regard to—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZD-10-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the well-being of the parent carer, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZD-10-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the need to safeguard and promote the welfare of the disabled child cared for and any other child for whom the parent carer has parental responsibility.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZD-11"><span class="LegAddition">(11)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> In subsection (10) “</span><span class="LegTerm"><span class="LegAddition">well-being</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” has the same meaning as in Part 1 of the Care Act 2014. </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZD-12"><span class="LegAddition">(12)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A local authority, in carrying out a parent carer's needs assessment, must involve—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZD-12-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the parent carer,</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZD-12-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any child for whom the parent carer has parental responsibility, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZD-12-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any person who the parent carer requests the authority to involve.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZD-13"><span class="LegAddition">(13)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A local authority that have carried out a parent carer's needs assessment must give a written record of the assessment to—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZD-13-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the parent carer, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZD-13-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any person to whom the parent carer requests the authority to give a copy.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZD-14"><span class="LegAddition">(14)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> A local authority </span><span class="LegAddition"> ... must take reasonable steps to identify the extent to which there are parent carers within their area who have needs for support.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-17ZE"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">17ZE</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Parent carers' needs assessments: supplementary</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England, Wales and Scotland"><span class="btr"/>E+W+S<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZE-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">This section applies for the purposes of section 17ZD.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZE-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The references in section 17ZD to providing care include a reference to providing practical or emotional support.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZE-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where a local authority—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZE-3-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">are required to carry out a parent carer's needs assessment, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZE-3-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">are required or have decided to carry out some other assessment of the parent carer or of the disabled child cared for,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">the local authority may combine the assessments.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZE-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The Secretary of State may by regulations make further provision about carrying out a parent carer's needs assessment; the regulations may, in particular—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZE-4-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">specify matters to which a local authority is to have regard in carrying out a parent carer's needs assessment;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZE-4-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">specify matters which a local authority is to determine in carrying out a parent carer's needs assessment;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZE-4-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">make provision about the manner in which a parent carer's needs assessment is to be carried out;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZE-4-d"><span class="LegAddition">(d)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">make provision about the form a parent carer's needs assessment is to take.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZE-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The Secretary of State may by regulations amend the list in section 17ZD(8)(b) so as to—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZE-5-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">add an entry,</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZE-5-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">remove an entry, or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZE-5-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">vary an entry.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-17ZF"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">17ZF</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Consideration of parent carers' needs assessments</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England, Wales and Scotland"><span class="btr"/>E+W+S<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegRHS LegP1Text"><span class="LegAddition">A local authority that carry out a parent carer's needs assessment must consider the assessment and decide—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZF-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">whether the parent carer has needs for support in relation to the care which he or she provides or intends to provide;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZF-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">whether the disabled child cared for has needs for support;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZF-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">if paragraph (a) or (b) applies, whether those needs could be satisfied (wholly or partly) by services which the authority may provide under section 17; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZF-d"><span class="LegAddition">(d)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">if they could be so satisfied, whether or not to provide any such services in relation to the parent carer or the disabled child cared for.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-17ZG"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">17ZG</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Section 17 services: continued provision where EHC plan maintained</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England, Wales and Scotland"><span class="btr"/>E+W+S<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZG-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">This section applies where, immediately before a child in need reaches the age of 18—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZG-1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"> a local authority </span><span class="LegAddition"> ... is providing services for the child in the exercise of functions conferred by section 17, and </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZG-1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">an EHC plan is maintained for the child.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZG-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The local authority may continue to provide services for the child in the exercise of those functions after the child reaches the age of 18, but may not continue to do so after the EHC plan has ceased to be maintained </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">, except in so far as the authority is required to do so under section 17ZH or 17ZI</span></span><span class="LegAddition">.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZG-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> In this section “ </span><span class="LegTerm"><span class="LegAddition">EHC plan</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ” means a plan within section 37(2) of the Children and Families Act 2014. </span> </span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-17ZH"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">17ZH</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Section 17 services: transition for children to adult care and support</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England, Wales and Scotland"><span class="btr"/>E+W+S<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZH-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> Subsections (2) to (4) apply where a local authority </span><span class="LegAddition">... providing services for a child in need in the exercise of functions conferred by section 17— </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZH-1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">are required by section 58(1) or 63(1) of the Care Act 2014 to carry out a child's needs assessment or young carer's assessment in relation to the child, or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZH-1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">are required by section 60(1) of that Act to carry out a child's carer's assessment in relation to a carer of the child.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZH-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">If the local authority carry out the assessment before the child reaches the age of 18 and decide to treat it as a needs or carer's assessment in accordance with section 59(6), 61(6) or 64(7) of the Care Act 2014 (with Part 1 of that Act applying to the assessment as a result), the authority must continue to comply with section 17 after the child reaches the age of 18 until they reach a conclusion in his case.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZH-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">If the local authority carry out the assessment before the child reaches the age of 18 but decide not to treat it as a needs or carer's assessment in accordance with section 59(6), 61(6) or 64(7) of the Care Act 2014—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZH-3-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">they must carry out a needs or carer's assessment (as the case may be) after the child reaches the age of 18, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZH-3-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">they must continue to comply with section 17 after he reaches that age until they reach a conclusion in his case.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZH-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">If the local authority do not carry out the assessment before the child reaches the age of 18, they must continue to comply with section 17 after he reaches that age until—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZH-4-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">they decide that the duty under section 9 or 10 of the Care Act 2014 (needs or carer's assessment) does not apply, or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZH-4-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">having decided that the duty applies and having discharged it, they reach a conclusion in his case.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZH-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> Subsection (6) applies where a local authority </span><span class="LegAddition">... providing services for a child in need in the exercise of functions conferred by section 17— </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZH-5-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">receive a request for a child's needs assessment or young carer's assessment to be carried out in relation to the child or for a child's carer's assessment to be carried out in relation to a carer of the child, but</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZH-5-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">have yet to be required by section 58(1), 60(1) or 63(1) of the Care Act 2014 to carry out the assessment.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZH-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">If the local authority do not decide, before the child reaches the age of 18, whether or not to comply with the request, they must continue to comply with section 17 after he reaches that age until—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZH-6-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">they decide that the duty under section 9 or 10 of the Care Act 2014 does not apply, or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZH-6-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">having decided that the duty applies and having discharged it, they reach a conclusion in his case.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZH-7"><span class="LegAddition">(7)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A local authority reach a conclusion in a person's case when—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZH-7-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">they conclude that he does not have needs for care and support or for support (as the case may be), or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZH-7-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">having concluded that he has such needs and that they are going to meet some or all of them, they begin to do so, or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17ZH-7-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">having concluded that he has such needs, they conclude that they are not going to meet any of those needs (whether because those needs do not meet the eligibility criteria or for some other reason).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZH-8"><span class="LegAddition">(8)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">In this section, “child's needs assessment”, “child's carer's assessment”, “young carer's assessment”, “needs assessment”, “carer's assessment” and “eligibility criteria” each have the same meaning as in Part 1 of the Care Act 2014.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-17ZI"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">17ZI</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Section 17 services: provision after EHC plan no longer maintained</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England, Wales and Scotland"><span class="btr"/>E+W+S<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZI-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> This section applies where a local authority </span><span class="LegAddition"> ... providing services for a person in the exercise, by virtue of section 17ZG, of functions conferred by section 17 are required to carry out a needs assessment in that person's case. </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZI-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">If the EHC plan for the person ceases to be maintained before the local authority reach a conclusion in the person's case, they must continue to comply with section 17 until they do reach a conclusion in his case.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZI-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The references to the local authority reaching a conclusion in a person's case are to be read with section 17ZH(7).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17ZI-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> In this section, “</span><span class="LegTerm"><span class="LegAddition">needs assessment</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” has the same meaning as in Part 1 of the Care Act 2014. </span> </span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-17A"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">17A</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Direct payments</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17A-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> may by regulations make provision for and in connection with requiring or authorising the responsible authority in the case of a person of a prescribed description who falls within subsection (2) to make, with that person’s consent, such payments to him as they may determine in accordance with the regulations in respect of his securing the provision of the service mentioned in that subsection.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17A-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A person falls within this subsection if he is—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17A-2-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a person with parental responsibility for a disabled child,</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17A-2-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a disabled person with parental responsibility for a child, or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17A-2-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a disabled child aged 16 or 17,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> and a local authority (“ </span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-the-responsible-authority"><span class="LegAddition">the responsible authority</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ”) have decided for the purposes of section 17 that the child’s needs (or, if he is such a disabled child, his needs) call for the provision by them of a service in exercise of functions conferred on them under that section. </span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17A-3"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(3)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Regulations under this section may, in particular, make provision—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17A-3-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">specifying circumstances in which the responsible authority are not required or authorised to make any payments under the regulations to a person, whether those circumstances relate to the person in question or to the particular service mentioned in subsection (2);</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17A-3-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">for any payments required or authorised by the regulations to be made to a person by the responsible authority (“direct payments”) to be made to that person (“the payee”) as gross payments or alternatively as net payments;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17A-3-c"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(c)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">for the responsible authority to make for the purposes of subsection (3A) or (3B) such determination as to—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-17A-3-c-i"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(i)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">the payee’s means, and</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-17A-3-c-ii"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(ii)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">the amount (if any) which it would be reasonably practicable for the payee to pay to the authority by way of reimbursement or contribution,</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">as may be prescribed;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17A-3-d"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(d)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">as to the conditions falling to be complied with by the payee which must or may be imposed by the responsible authority in relation to the direct payments (and any conditions which may not be so imposed);</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17A-3-e"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(e)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">specifying circumstances in which the responsible authority—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-17A-3-e-i"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(i)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">may or must terminate the making of direct payments,</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-17A-3-e-ii"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(ii)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">may require repayment (whether by the payee or otherwise) of the whole or part of the direct payments;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17A-3-f"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(f)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">for any sum falling to be paid or repaid to the responsible authority by virtue of any condition or other requirement imposed in pursuance of the regulations to be recoverable as a debt due to the authority;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17A-3-g"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(g)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">displacing functions or obligations of the responsible authority with respect to the provision of the service mentioned in subsection (2) only to such extent, and subject to such conditions, as may be prescribed;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17A-3-h"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(h)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">authorising direct payments to be made to any prescribed person on behalf of the payee;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17A-3-j"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(j)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">as to matters to which the responsible authority must, or may, have regard when making a decision for the purposes of a provision of the regulations;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17A-3-k"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(k)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">as to steps which the responsible authority must, or may, take before, or after, the authority makes a decision for the purposes of a provision of the regulations;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17A-3-l"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(l)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">specifying circumstances in which a person who has fallen within subsection (3D) but no longer does so (whether because of fluctuating capacity, or regaining or gaining of capacity) is to be treated, or may be treated, as falling within subsection (3D) for purposes of this section or for purposes of regulations under this section.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17A-3A"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(3A)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">For the purposes of subsection (3)(b) “gross payments” means payments—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17A-3A-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">which are made at such a rate as the authority estimate to be equivalent to the reasonable cost of securing the provision of the service concerned; but</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17A-3A-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">which may be made subject to the condition that the payee pays to the responsible authority, by way of reimbursement, an amount or amounts determined under the regulations.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17A-3B"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(3B)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">For the purposes of subsection (3)(b) “net payments” means payments—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17A-3B-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">which are made on the basis that the payee will pay an amount or amounts determined under the regulations by way of contribution towards the cost of securing the provision of the service concerned; and</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17A-3B-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">which are accordingly made at such a rate below that mentioned in subsection (3A)(a) as reflects any such contribution by the payee.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17A-3C"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(3C)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Regulations made for the purposes of subsection (3)(a) may provide that direct payments shall not be made in respect of the provision of residential accommodation for any person for a period in excess of a prescribed period.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17A-3D"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(3D)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">A person falls within this subsection if the person lacks capacity, within the meaning of the Mental Capacity Act 2005, to consent to the making of direct payments.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17A-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Regulations under this section shall provide that, where payments are made under the regulations to a person falling within subsection (5)—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17A-4-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the payments shall be made at the rate mentioned in subsection </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(3A)(a)</span></span><span class="LegAddition">; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17A-4-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">subsection </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(3A)(b)</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> shall not apply.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17A-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A person falls within this subsection if he is—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17A-5-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a person falling within subsection (2)(a) or (b) and the child in question is aged 16 or 17, or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-17A-5-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a person who is in receipt of </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">of universal credit (except in such circumstances as may be prescribed),</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> income support </span><span class="LegAddition">... under Part 7 of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 (c. 4) , of any element of child tax credit other than the family element, of working tax credit</span><span class="LegSubstitution">, of an income-based jobseeker's allowance or of an income-related employment and support allowance</span> .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-17A-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In this section—</span> </p><ul class="LegTabbedDef LegUnorderedList"><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">...
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-disabled">disabled</span>” in relation to an adult has the same meaning as that given by section 17(11) in relation to a child;
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-prescribed">prescribed</span>” means specified in or determined in accordance with regulations under this section ...
</p></li></ul><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section--17B-"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">  17B </span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Vouchers for persons with parental responsibility for disabled children <span class="LegAddition">: Wales</span>.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegRHS LegP1Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
</p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-18"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">18</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Day care for pre-school and other children.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-18-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Every local authority shall provide such day care for children in need within their area who are—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-18-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">aged five or under; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-18-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">not yet attending schools,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">as is appropriate.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-18-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-18-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A local authority may provide facilities (including training, advice, guidance and counselling) for those—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-18-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">caring for children in day care; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-18-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">who at any time accompany such children while they are in day care.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-18-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In this section “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-day-care">day care</span>” means any form of care or supervised activity provided for children during the day (whether or not it is provided on a regular basis).</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-18-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Every local authority shall provide for children in need within their area who are attending any school such care or supervised activities as is appropriate—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-18-5-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">outside school hours; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-18-5-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">during school holidays.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-18-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-18-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In this section “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-supervised-activity">supervised activity</span>” means an activity supervised by a responsible person.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section--19-"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"> <span class="LegAddition"> 19 </span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Review of provision for day care, child minding <span xml:lang="la">etc.</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-19-1"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">Every local authority in England and Wales shall review—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-19-1-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">the provision which they make under section 18;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-19-1-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">the extent to which the services of child minders are available within their area with respect to children under the age of eight; and</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-19-1-c"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">the provision for day care within their area made for children under the age of eight by persons other, than the authority, required to register under </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">Part XA</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-19-2"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">A review under subsection (1) shall be conducted—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-19-2-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">together with the appropriate local education authority; and</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-19-2-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">at least once in every review period.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-19-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Every local authority in Scotland shall, at least once in every review period, review—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-19-3-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the provision for day care within their area made for children under the age of eight by the local authority and by persons required to register under section 71(1)(b); and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-19-3-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the extent to which the services of child minders are available within their area with respect to children under the age of eight.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-19-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">In conducting any such review, </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">the two authorities or, in Scotland,</span></span><span class="LegAddition">the authority shall have regard to the provision made with respect to children under the age of eight in relevant establishments within their area.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-19-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">In this section—</span></span> </p><ul class="LegTabbedDef LegUnorderedList"><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> “</span></span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-relevant-establishment"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">relevant establishment</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">” means— </span></span> </p><div><div class="LegAlphaList"><div class="LegListItem"><div class="LegLevel4No LegListItemNo">(a)</div><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel4"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">in relation to Scotland, any establishment which is mentioned in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Schedule 9 (establishments exempt from the registration requirements which apply in relation to the provision of day care in Scotland); and</span></span> </p></div><div class="LegListItem"><div class="LegLevel4No LegListItemNo">(b)</div><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel4"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">in relation to England and Wales, any establishment which is mentioned in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Schedule 9A (establishments exempt from the registration requirements which apply in relation to the provision of day care in England and Wales);</span></span> </p></div></div></div></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"> “ </span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-review-period"><span class="LegAddition">review period</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ” means the period of one year beginning with the commencement of this section and each subsequent period of three years beginning with an anniversary of that commencement. </span> </p></li></ul><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-19-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where a local authority have conducted a review under this section they shall publish the result of the review—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-19-6-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">as soon as is reasonably practicable;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-19-6-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in such form as they consider appropriate; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-19-6-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">together with any proposals they may have with respect to the matters reviewed.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-19-7"><span class="LegAddition">(7)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The authorities conducting any review under this section shall have regard to—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-19-7-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any representations made to any one of them by any relevant </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">Health Authority, Special Health Authority</span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">, Primary Care Trust</span></span><span class="LegAddition">or health board; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-19-7-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any other representations which they consider to be relevant.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-19-8"><span class="LegAddition">(8)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> In the application of this section to Scotland, “</span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-day-care"><span class="LegAddition">day care</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” has the same meaning as in section 79 and “</span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-health-board"><span class="LegAddition">health board</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” has the same meaning as in the </span><span class="LegAddition"> National Health Service (Scotland) Act 1978. </span> </span> </p><div class="LegClearPblock"/><h3 class="LegPblock"><span class="LegPblockTitle"> Provision of accommodation for children<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-20"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">20</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst"> Provision of accommodation for children: general.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-20-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Every local authority shall provide accommodation for any child in need within their area who appears to them to require accommodation as a result of—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-20-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">there being no person who has parental responsibility for him;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-20-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">his being lost or having been abandoned; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-20-1-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the person who has been caring for him being prevented (whether or not permanently, and for whatever reason) from providing him with suitable accommodation or care.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-20-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a local authority provide accommodation under subsection (1) for a child who is ordinarily resident in the area of another local authority, that other local authority may take over the provision of accommodation for the child within—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-20-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">three months of being notified in writing that the child is being provided with accommodation; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-20-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">such other longer period as may be prescribed <span class="LegAddition">in regulations made by the Secretary of State</span>.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-20-2A"><span class="LegAddition">(2A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> Where a local authority in Wales provide accommodation under section 76(1) of the Social Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014 (accommodation for children without parents or who are lost or abandoned </span><span class="LegAddition">etc.</span><span class="LegAddition"> ) for a child who is ordinarily resident in the area of a local authority in England, that local authority in England may take over the provision of accommodation for the child within— </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-20-2A-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">three months of being notified in writing that the child is being provided with accommodation; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-20-2A-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">such other longer period as may be prescribed in regulations made by the Secretary of State.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-20-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Every local authority shall provide accommodation for any child in need within their area who has reached the age of sixteen and whose welfare the authority consider is likely to be seriously prejudiced if they do not provide him with accommodation.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-20-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A local authority may provide accommodation for any child within their area (even though a person who has parental responsibility for him is able to provide him with accommodation) if they consider that to do so would safeguard or promote the child’s welfare.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-20-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A local authority may provide accommodation for any person who has reached the age of sixteen but is under twenty-one in any community home which takes children who have reached the age of sixteen if they consider that to do so would safeguard or promote his welfare.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-20-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Before providing accommodation under this section, a local authority shall, so far as is reasonably practicable and consistent with the child’s welfare—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-20-6-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">ascertain the child’s wishes <span class="LegAddition">and feelings</span> regarding the provision of accommodation; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-20-6-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">give due consideration (having regard to his age and understanding) to such wishes <span class="LegAddition">and feelings</span> of the child as they have been able to ascertain.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-20-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A local authority may not provide accommodation under this section for any child if any person who—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-20-7-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">has parental responsibility for him; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-20-7-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">is willing and able to—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-20-7-b-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">provide accommodation for him; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-20-7-b-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">arrange for accommodation to be provided for him,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP3Text">objects.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-20-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any person who has parental responsibility for a child may at any time remove the child from accommodation provided by or on behalf of the local authority under this section.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-20-9">(9)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Subsections (7) and (8) do not apply while any person—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-20-9-a"><span class="LegSubstitution">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">who is named in a child arrangements order as a person with whom the child is to live;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-20-9-aa"><span class="LegAddition">(aa)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">who is a special guardian of the child; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-20-9-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">who has care of the child by virtue of an order made in the exercise of the High Court’s inherent jurisdiction with respect to children,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">agrees to the child being looked after in accommodation provided by or on behalf of the local authority.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-20-10">(10)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where there is more than one such person as is mentioned in subsection (9), all of them must agree.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-20-11">(11)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Subsections (7) and (8) do not apply where a child who has reached the age of sixteen agrees to being provided with accommodation under this section.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-21"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">21</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Provision of accommodation for children in police protection or detention or on remand, etc.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-21-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Every local authority shall make provision for the reception and accommodation of children who are removed or kept away from home under Part V.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-21-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Every local authority shall receive, and provide accommodation for, children—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-21-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">in police protection whom they are requested to receive under section 46(3)(f);</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-21-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">whom they are requested to receive under section 38(6) of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-21-2-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">who are—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-21-2-c-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-21-2-c-ia"><span class="LegAddition">(ia)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition"> remanded to accommodation provided by or on behalf of a local authority by virtue of </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 or paragraph 7 of Schedule 5 to the Sentencing Code</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> (breach </span><span class="LegAddition">etc.</span><span class="LegAddition"> of referral orders and reparation orders);</span> </span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-21-2-c-ii"><span class="LegSubstitution">(ii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegSubstitution"> remanded to accommodation provided by or on behalf of a local authority by virtue of </span><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegSubstitution">paragraph 25 of Schedule 7 to that Code</span></span><span class="LegSubstitution"> (breach </span><span class="LegSubstitution">etc.</span><span class="LegSubstitution"> of youth rehabilitation orders); </span><span class="LegSubstitution"> . . . </span> </span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-21-2-c-iia"><span class="LegAddition">(iia)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">remanded to accommodation provided by or on behalf of a local authority by virtue of paragraph 10 of the Schedule to the Street Offences Act 1959 (breach of orders under section 1(2A) of that Act);</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-21-2-c-iii"><span class="LegAddition">(iii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">the subject of a youth rehabilitation order imposing a local authority residence requirement or a youth rehabilitation order with fostering,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP3Text">and with respect to whom they are the designated authority.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-21-2A"><span class="LegSubstitution">(2A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">In subsection (2)(c)(iii)—</span></span> </p><ul class="LegTabbedDef LegUnorderedList"><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegSubstitution">“</span><span class="LegTerm"><span class="LegSubstitution">local authority residence requirement</span></span><span class="LegSubstitution">” has the meaning given by paragraph 24 of Schedule 6 to the Sentencing Code;</span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegSubstitution">“</span><span class="LegTerm"><span class="LegSubstitution">youth rehabilitation order</span></span><span class="LegSubstitution">” has the meaning given by section 173 of that Code;</span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegSubstitution">“</span><span class="LegTerm"><span class="LegSubstitution">youth rehabilitation order with fostering</span></span><span class="LegSubstitution">” has the meaning given by section 176 of that Code.</span> </p></li></ul><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-21-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a child has been—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-21-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">removed under Part V; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-21-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">detained under section 38 of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">and he is not being provided with accommodation by a local authority <span class="LegAddition">or by a local authority in Wales</span> or in a hospital vested in the <span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State or</span> <span class="LegAddition">, the Welsh Ministers</span> ..., <span class="LegAddition">or otherwise made available pursuant to arrangements made by </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">the Secretary of State, </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">NHS England</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> or </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an integrated care board</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> under the National Health Service Act 2006 or</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">Health Authority</span></span> <span class="LegSubstitution">Local Health Board</span> ..., any reasonable expenses of accommodating him shall be recoverable from the local authority <span class="LegAddition">, or local authority in Wales,</span> in whose area he is ordinarily resident.
</p><div class="LegClearPblock"/><h3 class="LegPblock"><span class="LegPblockTitle"> Duties of local authorities in relation to children looked after by them<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-22"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">22</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst"> General duty of local authority in relation to children looked after by them.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-22-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">In this section</span>, any reference to a child who is looked after by a local authority is a reference to a child who is—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">in their care; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">provided with accommodation by the authority in the exercise of any functions (in particular those under this Act) which <span class="LegAddition">are social services functions within the meaning of</span> the Local Authority Social Services Act 1970 <span class="LegAddition">, apart from functions under sections </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">17</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> 23B and 24B</span>.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-22-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In subsection (1) “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-accommodation">accommodation</span>” means accommodation which is provided for a continuous period of more than 24 hours.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-22-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">It shall be the duty of a local authority looking after any child—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">to safeguard and promote his welfare; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">to make such use of services available for children cared for by their own parents as appears to the authority reasonable in his case.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-22-3A"><span class="LegAddition">(3A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The duty of a local authority under subsection (3)(a) to safeguard and promote the welfare of a child looked after by them includes in particular a duty to promote the child’s educational achievement.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-22-3B"><span class="LegAddition">(3B)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> A local authority </span><span class="LegAddition"> ... must appoint at least one person for the purpose of discharging the duty imposed by virtue of subsection (3A). </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-22-3C"><span class="LegAddition">(3C)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> A person appointed by a local authority under subsection (3B) must be an officer employed by that authority or another local authority </span><span class="LegAddition"> .... </span> </span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-22-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Before making any decision with respect to a child whom they are looking after, or proposing to look after, a local authority shall, so far as is reasonably practicable, ascertain the wishes and feelings of—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22-4-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the child;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22-4-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">his parents;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22-4-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any person who is not a parent of his but who has parental responsibility for him; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22-4-d">(d)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any other person whose wishes and feelings the authority consider to be relevant,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">regarding the matter to be decided.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-22-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In making any such decision a local authority shall give due consideration—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22-5-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">having regard to his age and understanding, to such wishes and feelings of the child as they have been able to ascertain;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22-5-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">to such wishes and feelings of any person mentioned in subsection (4)(b) to (d) as they have been able to ascertain; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22-5-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">to the child’s religious persuasion, racial origin and cultural and linguistic background.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-22-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">If it appears to a local authority that it is necessary, for the purpose of protecting members of the public from serious injury, to exercise their powers with respect to a child whom they are looking after in a manner which may not be consistent with their duties under this section, they may do so.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-22-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">If the <span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span> considers it necessary, for the purpose of protecting members of the public from serious injury, to give directions to a local authority with respect to the exercise of their powers with respect to a child whom they are looking after, <span class="LegSubstitution">the </span><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span> may give such directions to <span class="LegSubstitution">the authority</span>.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-22-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where any such directions are given to an authority they shall comply with them even though doing so is inconsistent with their duties under this section.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-23"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">23</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Provision of accommodation and maintenance by local authority for children whom they are looking after.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegRHS LegP1Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
</p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section--22A-"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"> <span class="LegAddition"> 22A </span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Provision of accommodation for children in care</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegRHS LegP1Text"><span class="LegAddition">When a child is in the care of a local authority, it is their duty to provide the child with accommodation.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section--22B-"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"> <span class="LegAddition"> 22B </span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Maintenance of looked after children</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegRHS LegP1Text"><span class="LegAddition">It is the duty of a local authority to maintain a child they are looking after in other respects apart from the provision of accommodation.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section--22C-"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"> <span class="LegAddition">22C </span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Ways in which looked after children are to be accommodated and maintained</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-22C-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">This section applies where a local authority are looking after a child (“C”).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-22C-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The local authority must make arrangements for C to live with a person who falls within subsection (3) (but subject to subsection (4)).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-22C-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A person (“P”) falls within this subsection if—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22C-3-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">P is a parent of C;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22C-3-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">P is not a parent of C but has parental responsibility for C; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22C-3-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in a case where C is in the care of the local authority and there was </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">a child arrangements order</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> in force with respect to C immediately before the care order was made, P was a person </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">named in the child arrangements order as a person with whom C was to live</span></span><span class="LegAddition">.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-22C-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Subsection (2) does not require the local authority to make arrangements of the kind mentioned in that subsection if doing so—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22C-4-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">would not be consistent with C's welfare; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22C-4-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">would not be reasonably practicable.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-22C-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">If the local authority are unable to make arrangements under subsection (2), they must place C in the placement which is, in their opinion, the most appropriate placement available.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-22C-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> In subsection (5) “ </span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-placement"><span class="LegAddition">placement</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ” means— </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22C-6-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">placement with an individual who is a relative, friend or other person connected with C and who is also a local authority foster parent;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22C-6-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">placement with a local authority foster parent who does not fall within paragraph (a);</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22C-6-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">placement in a children's home in respect of which a person is registered under Part 2 of the Care Standards Act 2000 </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">or Part 1 of the Regulation and Inspection of Social Care (Wales) Act 2016 (anaw 2)</span></span><span class="LegAddition">; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22C-6-d"><span class="LegAddition">(d)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">subject to section 22D, placement in accordance with other arrangements which comply with any regulations made for the purposes of this section.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-22C-7"><span class="LegAddition">(7)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> In determining the most appropriate placement for C, the local authority must, subject to </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">subsection (9B) and</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> the other provisions of this Part (in particular, to their duties under section 22)— </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22C-7-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">give preference to a placement falling within paragraph (a) of subsection (6) over placements falling within the other paragraphs of that subsection;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22C-7-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">comply, so far as is reasonably practicable in all the circumstances of C's case, with the requirements of subsection (8); and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22C-7-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">comply with subsection (9) unless that is not reasonably practicable.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-22C-8"><span class="LegAddition">(8)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The local authority must ensure that the placement is such that—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22C-8-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">it allows C to live near C's home;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22C-8-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">it does not disrupt C's education or training;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22C-8-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">if C has a sibling for whom the local authority are also providing accommodation, it enables C and the sibling to live together;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22C-8-d"><span class="LegAddition">(d)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">if C is disabled, the accommodation provided is suitable to C's particular needs.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-22C-9"><span class="LegAddition">(9)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The placement must be such that C is provided with accommodation within the local authority's area.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-22C-9A"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(9A)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> Subsection (9B) applies (subject to subsection (9C)) where the local authority </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> ...— </span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22C-9A-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">are considering adoption for C, or</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22C-9A-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">are satisfied that C ought to be placed for adoption but are not authorised under section 19 of the Adoption and Children Act 2002 (placement with parental consent) or by virtue of section 21 of that Act (placement orders) to place C for adoption.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-22C-9B"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(9B)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">Where this subsection applies—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22C-9B-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">subsections (7) to (9) do not apply to the local authority,</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22C-9B-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">the local authority must consider placing C with an individual within subsection (6)(a), and</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22C-9B-c"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">where the local authority decide that a placement with such an individual is not the most appropriate placement for C, the local authority must consider placing C with a local authority foster parent who has been approved as a prospective adopter.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-22C-9C"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(9C)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">Subsection (9B) does not apply where the local authority have applied for a placement order under section 21 of the Adoption and Children Act 2002 in respect of C and the application has been refused.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-22C-10"><span class="LegAddition">(10)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The local authority may determine—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22C-10-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the terms of any arrangements they make under subsection (2) in relation to C (including terms as to payment); and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22C-10-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the terms on which they place C with a local authority foster parent (including terms as to payment but subject to any order made under section 49 of the Children Act 2004).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-22C-11"><span class="LegAddition">(11)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> may make regulations for, and in connection with, the purposes of this section.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-22C-12"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(12)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">For the meaning of “local authority foster parent” see section 105(1).</span></span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section--22D-"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"> <span class="LegAddition"> 22D </span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Review of child's case before making alternative arrangements for accommodation</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-22D-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where a local authority are providing accommodation for a child (“C”) other than by arrangements under section 22C(6)(d), they must not make such arrangements for C unless they have decided to do so in consequence of a review of C's case carried out in accordance with regulations made under section 26.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-22D-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">But subsection (1) does not prevent a local authority making arrangements for C under section 22C(6)(d) if they are satisfied that in order to safeguard C's welfare it is necessary—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22D-2-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">to make such arrangements; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22D-2-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">to do so as a matter of urgency.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-22E"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">22E.</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Children’s homes provided by Secretary of State or Welsh Ministers</span></span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegRHS LegP1Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Where a local authority place a child they are looking after in a children’s home provided, equipped and maintained by the Secretary of State or the Welsh Ministers under section 82(5), they must do so on such terms as the Secretary of State or the Welsh Ministers (as the case may be) may from time to time determine.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section--22F-"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"> <span class="LegAddition"> 22F </span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Regulations as to children looked after by local authorities</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegRHS LegP1Text"><span class="LegAddition">Part 2 of Schedule 2 has effect for the purposes of making further provision as to children looked after by local authorities and in particular as to the regulations which may be made under section 22C(11).</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-22G"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">22G</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">General duty of local authority to secure sufficient accommodation for looked after children</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-22G-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">It is the general duty of a local authority to take steps that secure, so far as reasonably practicable, the outcome in subsection (2).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-22G-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The outcome is that the local authority are able to provide the children mentioned in subsection (3) with accommodation that—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22G-2-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">is within the authority's area; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22G-2-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">meets the needs of those children.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-22G-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The children referred to in subsection (2) are those—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22G-3-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">that the local authority are looking after,</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22G-3-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in respect of whom the authority are unable to make arrangements under section 22C(2), and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22G-3-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">whose circumstances are such that it would be consistent with their welfare for them to be provided with accommodation that is in the authority's area.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-22G-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">In taking steps to secure the outcome in subsection (2), the local authority must have regard to the benefit of having—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22G-4-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a number of accommodation providers in their area that is, in their opinion, sufficient to secure that outcome; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-22G-4-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a range of accommodation in their area capable of meeting different needs that is, in their opinion, sufficient to secure that outcome.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-22G-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> In this section “ </span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-accommodation-providers"><span class="LegAddition">accommodation providers</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ” means— </span></span> </p><ul class="LegTabbed LegUnorderedList"><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition">local authority foster parents; and</span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition">children's homes in respect of which a person is registered under Part 2 of the Care Standards Act 2000.</span> </p></li></ul><div class="LegClearPblock"/><h3 class="LegPblock"><span class="LegPblockTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Educational achievement of previously looked after children</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England, Wales and Scotland"><span class="btr"/>E+W+S<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-23ZZA"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">23ZZA</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst"><span class="LegAddition">Information and advice for promoting educational achievement</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England, Wales and Scotland"><span class="btr"/>E+W+S<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23ZZA-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A local authority in England must make advice and information available in accordance with this section for the purpose of promoting the educational achievement of each relevant child educated in their area.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23ZZA-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The advice and information must be made available to—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23ZZA-2-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any person who has parental responsibility for the child,</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23ZZA-2-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the member of staff at the child's school designated under section 20A of the Children and Young Persons Act 2008 or by virtue of section 2E of the Academies Act 2010, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23ZZA-2-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any other person that the local authority consider appropriate.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23ZZA-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A local authority in England may do anything else that they consider appropriate with a view to promoting the educational achievement of relevant children educated in their area.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23ZZA-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A local authority in England must appoint at least one person for the purpose of discharging the duty imposed by subsection (1).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23ZZA-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The person appointed for that purpose must be an officer employed by the authority or another local authority in England.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23ZZA-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">In this section—</span></span> </p><div class="LegBlockText"><p class="LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition">“</span><span class="LegTerm"><span class="LegAddition">relevant child</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” means—</span> </p><div><div class="LegAlphaList"><div class="LegListItem"><div class="LegLevel4No LegListItemNo">(a)</div><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel4"><span class="LegAddition">a child who was looked after by the local authority or another local authority in England or Wales but ceased to be so looked after as a result of—</span> </p><div><div class="LegRomanList"><div class="LegListItem"><div class="LegLevel5No LegListItemNo">(i)</div><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel5"><span class="LegAddition">a child arrangements order which includes arrangements relating to with whom the child is to live, or when the child is to live with any person,</span> </p></div><div class="LegListItem"><div class="LegLevel5No LegListItemNo">(ii)</div><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel5"><span class="LegAddition">a special guardianship order, or</span> </p></div><div class="LegListItem"><div class="LegLevel5No LegListItemNo">(iii)</div><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel5"><span class="LegAddition">an adoption order within the meaning given by section 72(1) of the Adoption Act 1976 or section 46(1) of the Adoption and Children Act 2002, or</span> </p></div></div></div></div><div class="LegListItem"><div class="LegLevel4No LegListItemNo">(b)</div><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel4"><span class="LegAddition">a child who appears to the local authority—</span> </p><div><div class="LegRomanList"><div class="LegListItem"><div class="LegLevel5No LegListItemNo">(i)</div><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel5"><span class="LegAddition">to have been in state care in a place outside England and Wales because he or she would not otherwise have been cared for adequately, and</span> </p></div><div class="LegListItem"><div class="LegLevel5No LegListItemNo">(ii)</div><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel5"><span class="LegAddition">to have ceased to be in that state care as a result of being adopted.</span> </p></div></div></div></div></div></div></div><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23ZZA-7"><span class="LegAddition">(7)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">For the purposes of this section a child is educated in a local authority's area if—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23ZZA-7-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the child is receiving early years provision secured by the local authority under section 7(1) of the Childcare Act 2006, or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23ZZA-7-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the child is of compulsory school age and—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-23ZZA-7-b-i"><span class="LegAddition">(i)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">the child attends a school in the local authority's area, or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-23ZZA-7-b-ii"><span class="LegAddition">(ii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">if the child does not attend school, the child receives all or most of his or her education in the local authority's area.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23ZZA-8"><span class="LegAddition">(8)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">For the purposes of this section a child is in “state care” if he or she is in the care of, or accommodated by—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23ZZA-8-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a public authority,</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23ZZA-8-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a religious organisation, or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23ZZA-8-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any other organisation the sole or main purpose of which is to benefit society.</span></span> </p><div class="LegClearPblock"/><h3 class="LegPblock"><span class="LegPblockTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Visiting</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-23ZA"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">23ZA</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst"><span class="LegAddition">Duty of local authority to ensure visits to, and contact with, looked after children and others</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23ZA-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">This section applies to—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23ZA-1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a child looked after by a local authority;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23ZA-1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a child who was looked after by a local authority but who has ceased to be looked after by them as a result of prescribed circumstances.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23ZA-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">It is the duty of the local authority—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23ZA-2-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">to ensure that a person to whom this section applies is visited by a representative of the authority (“a representative”);</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23ZA-2-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">to arrange for appropriate advice, support and assistance to be available to a person to whom this section applies who seeks it from them.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23ZA-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The duties imposed by subsection (2)—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23ZA-3-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">are to be discharged in accordance with any regulations made for the purposes of this section by the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span><span class="LegAddition">;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23ZA-3-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">are subject to any requirement imposed by or under an enactment applicable to the place in which the person to whom this section applies is accommodated.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23ZA-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Regulations under this section for the purposes of subsection (3)(a) may make provision about—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23ZA-4-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the frequency of visits;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23ZA-4-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">circumstances in which a person to whom this section applies must be visited by a representative; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23ZA-4-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the functions of a representative.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23ZA-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">In choosing a representative a local authority must satisfy themselves that the person chosen has the necessary skills and experience to perform the functions of a representative.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section--23ZB-"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> 23ZB </span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">Independent visitors for children looked after by a local authority</span></span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23ZB-1"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">A local authority looking after a child must appoint an independent person to be the child's visitor if—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23ZB-1-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">the child falls within a description prescribed in regulations made by the </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">; or</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23ZB-1-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">in any other case, it appears to them that it would be in the child's interests to do so.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23ZB-2"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">A person appointed under this section must visit, befriend and advise the child.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23ZB-3"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">A person appointed under this section is entitled to recover from the appointing authority any reasonable expenses incurred by that person for the purposes of that person's functions under this section.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23ZB-4"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">A person's appointment as a visitor in pursuance of this section comes to an end if—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23ZB-4-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">the child ceases to be looked after by the local authority;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23ZB-4-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">the person resigns the appointment by giving notice in writing to the appointing authority; or</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23ZB-4-c"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">the authority give him notice in writing that they have terminated it.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23ZB-5"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">The ending of such an appointment does not affect any duty under this section to make a further appointment.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23ZB-6"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">Where a local authority propose to appoint a visitor for a child under this section, the appointment shall not be made if—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23ZB-6-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">the child objects to it; and</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23ZB-6-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">the authority are satisfied that the child has sufficient understanding to make an informed decision.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23ZB-7"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(7)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">Where a visitor has been appointed for a child under this section, the local authority shall terminate the appointment if—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23ZB-7-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">the child objects to its continuing; and</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23ZB-7-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">the authority are satisfied that the child has sufficient understanding to make an informed decision.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23ZB-8"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(8)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">If the local authority give effect to a child's objection under subsection (6) or (7) and the objection is to having anyone as the child's visitor, the authority does not have to propose to appoint another person under subsection (1) until the objection is withdrawn.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23ZB-9"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(9)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">The </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> may make regulations as to the circumstances in which a person is to be regarded for the purposes of this section as independent of the appointing authority.</span></span></span> </p><div class="LegClearPblock"/><h3 class="LegPblock"><span class="LegPblockTitle"> Advice and assistance for certain children <span class="LegAddition"> and young persons</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-23A"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">23A</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst"> The responsible authority and relevant children.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23A-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The responsible local authority shall have the functions set out in section 23B in respect of a relevant child.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23A-2"> <span class="LegAddition">( 2 )</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> In subsection (1) “ </span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-relevant-child"><span class="LegAddition">relevant child</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ” means (subject to subsection (3)) a child who— </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23A-2-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">is not being looked after </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">by any local authority in England or by any local authority in Wales</span></span><span class="LegAddition">;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23A-2-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">was, before last ceasing to be looked after, an eligible child for the purposes of paragraph 19B of Schedule 2; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23A-2-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">is aged sixteen or seventeen.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23A-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> may prescribe—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23A-3-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">additional categories of relevant children; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23A-3-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">categories of children who are not to be relevant children despite falling within subsection (2).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23A-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> In subsection (1) the “ </span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-responsible-local-authority"><span class="LegAddition">responsible local authority</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ” is the one which last looked after the child. </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23A-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">If under subsection (3)(a) the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> prescribes a category of relevant children which includes children who do not fall within subsection (2)(b) (for example, because they were being looked after by a local authority in Scotland), </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">the </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"> may in the regulations also provide for which local authority is to be the responsible local authority for those children.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-23B"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">23B</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Additional functions of the responsible authority in respect of relevant children.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23B-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">It is the duty of each local authority to take reasonable steps to keep in touch with a relevant child for whom they are the responsible authority, whether he is within their area or not.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23B-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">It is the duty of each local authority to appoint a personal adviser for each relevant child (if they have not already done so under paragraph 19C of Schedule 2).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23B-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">It is the duty of each local authority, in relation to any relevant child who does not already have a pathway plan prepared for the purposes of paragraph 19B of Schedule 2—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23B-3-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">to carry out an assessment of his needs with a view to determining what advice, assistance and support it would be appropriate for them to provide him under this Part; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23B-3-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">to prepare a pathway plan for him.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23B-4"> <span class="LegAddition">( 4 )</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23B-5"> <span class="LegAddition">( 5 )</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23B-6"> <span class="LegAddition">( 6 )</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23B-7"> <span class="LegAddition">( 7 )</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23B-8"><span class="LegAddition">(8)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The responsible local authority shall safeguard and promote the child’s welfare and, unless they are satisfied that his welfare does not require it, support him by—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23B-8-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">maintaining him;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23B-8-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">providing him with or maintaining him in suitable accommodation; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23B-8-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">providing support of such other descriptions as may be prescribed.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23B-9"><span class="LegAddition">(9)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Support under subsection (8) may be in cash.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23B-10"><span class="LegAddition">(10)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> The </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution"> Secretary of State </span></span><span class="LegAddition"> may by regulations make provision about the meaning of “ </span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-suitable-accommodation"><span class="LegAddition">suitable accommodation</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ” and in particular about the suitability of landlords or other providers of accommodation. </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23B-11"><span class="LegAddition">(11)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">If the local authority have lost touch with a relevant child, despite taking reasonable steps to keep in touch, they must without delay—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23B-11-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">consider how to re-establish contact; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23B-11-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">take reasonable steps to do so,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">and while the child is still a relevant child must continue to take such steps until they succeed.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23B-12"><span class="LegAddition">(12)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Subsections (7) to (9) of section 17 apply in relation to support given under this section as they apply in relation to assistance given under that section.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23B-13"><span class="LegAddition">(13)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Subsections (4) and (5) of section 22 apply in relation to any decision by a local authority for the purposes of this section as they apply in relation to the decisions referred to in that section.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section--23C-"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"> <span class="LegAddition"> 23C </span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Continuing functions in respect of former relevant children.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23C-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Each local authority shall have the duties provided for in this section towards—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23C-1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a person who has been a relevant child for the purposes of section 23A (and would be one if he were under eighteen), and in relation to whom they were the last responsible authority; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23C-1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a person who was being looked after by them when he attained the age of eighteen, and immediately before ceasing to be looked after was an eligible child,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> and in this section such a person is referred to as a “ </span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-former-relevant-child"><span class="LegAddition">former relevant child</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ”. </span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23C-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">It is the duty of the local authority to take reasonable steps—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23C-2-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">to keep in touch with a former relevant child whether he is within their area or not; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23C-2-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">if they lose touch with him, to re-establish contact.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23C-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">It is the duty of the local authority—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23C-3-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">to continue the appointment of a personal adviser for a former relevant child; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23C-3-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">to continue to keep his pathway plan under regular review.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23C-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">It is the duty of the local authority to give a former relevant child—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23C-4-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">assistance of the kind referred to in section 24B(1), to the extent that his welfare requires it;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23C-4-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">assistance of the kind referred to in section 24B(2), to the extent that his welfare and his educational or training needs require it;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23C-4-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">other assistance, to the extent that his welfare requires it.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23C-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The assistance given under subsection (4)(c) may be in kind or, in exceptional circumstances, in cash.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23C-5A"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(5A)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">It is the duty of the local authority to pay the relevant amount to a former relevant child who pursues higher education in accordance with a pathway plan prepared for that person.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23C-5B"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(5B)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">The </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> may by regulations—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23C-5B-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">prescribe the relevant amount for the purposes of subsection (5A);</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23C-5B-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">prescribe the meaning of “higher education” for those purposes;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23C-5B-c"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">make provision as to the payment of the relevant amount;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23C-5B-d"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(d)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">make provision as to the circumstances in which the relevant amount (or any part of it) may be recovered by the local authority from a former relevant child to whom a payment has been made.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23C-5C"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(5C)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">The duty set out in subsection (5A) is without prejudice to that set out in subsection (4)(b).</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23C-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Subject to subsection (7), the duties set out in subsections (2), (3) and (4) subsist until the former relevant child reaches the age of twenty-one.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23C-7"><span class="LegAddition">(7)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">If the former relevant child’s pathway plan sets out a programme of education or training which extends beyond his twenty-first birthday—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23C-7-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the duty set out in subsection (4)(b) continues to subsist for so long as the former relevant child continues to pursue that programme; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23C-7-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the duties set out in subsections (2) and (3) continue to subsist concurrently with that duty.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23C-8"><span class="LegAddition">(8)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">For the purposes of subsection (7)(a) there shall be disregarded any interruption in a former relevant child’s pursuance of a programme of education or training if the local authority are satisfied that he will resume it as soon as is reasonably practicable.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23C-9"><span class="LegAddition">(9)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Section 24B(5) applies in relation to a person being given assistance under subsection (4)(b) </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">or who is in receipt of a payment under subsection (5A)</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> as it applies in relation to a person to whom section 24B(3) applies.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23C-10"><span class="LegAddition">(10)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Subsections (7) to (9) of section 17 apply in relation to assistance given under this section as they apply in relation to assistance given under that section.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-23CZA"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">23CZA</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Arrangements for certain former relevant children to continue to live with former foster parents</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23CZA-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> Each local authority </span><span class="LegAddition"> ... have the duties provided for in subsection (3) in relation to a staying put arrangement. </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23CZA-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A “staying put arrangement” is an arrangement under which—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23CZA-2-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a person who is a former relevant child by virtue of section 23C(1)(b), and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23CZA-2-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a person (a “former foster parent”) who was the former relevant child's local authority foster parent immediately before the former relevant child ceased to be looked after by the local authority,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">continue to live together after the former relevant child has ceased to be looked after.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23CZA-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">It is the duty of the local authority (in discharging the duties in section 23C(3) and by other means)—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23CZA-3-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">to monitor the staying put arrangement, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23CZA-3-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">to provide advice, assistance and support to the former relevant child and the former foster parent with a view to maintaining the staying put arrangement.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23CZA-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Support provided to the former foster parent under subsection (3)(b) must include financial support.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23CZA-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Subsection (3)(b) does not apply if the local authority consider that the staying put arrangement is not consistent with the welfare of the former relevant child.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23CZA-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The duties set out in subsection (3) subsist until the former relevant child reaches the age of 21.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-23CZB"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">23CZB</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">England: further advice and support</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23CZB-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">This section applies to a former relevant child if—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23CZB-1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">he or she has reached the age of 21 but not the age of 25, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23CZB-1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a local authority in England had duties towards him or her under section 23C (whether or not some of those duties continue to subsist by virtue of subsection (7) of that section).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23CZB-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">If the former relevant child informs the local authority that he or she wishes to receive advice and support under this section, the local authority has the duties provided for in subsections (3) to (6).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23CZB-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The local authority must provide the former relevant child with a personal adviser until the former relevant child—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23CZB-3-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">reaches the age of 25, or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23CZB-3-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">if earlier, informs the local authority that he or she no longer wants a personal adviser.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23CZB-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The local authority must—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23CZB-4-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">carry out an assessment in relation to the former relevant child under subsection (5), and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23CZB-4-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">prepare a pathway plan for the former relevant child.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23CZB-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">An assessment under this subsection is an assessment of the needs of the former relevant child with a view to determining—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23CZB-5-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">whether any services offered by the local authority (under this Act or otherwise) may assist in meeting his or her needs, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23CZB-5-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">if so, what advice and support it would be appropriate for the local authority to provide for the purpose of helping the former relevant child to obtain those services.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23CZB-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The local authority must provide the former relevant child with advice and support that it would be appropriate to provide as mentioned in subsection (5)(b).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23CZB-7"><span class="LegAddition">(7)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where a former relevant child to whom this section applies is not receiving advice and support under this section, the local authority must offer such advice and support—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23CZB-7-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">as soon as possible after he or she reaches the age of 21, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23CZB-7-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">at least once in every 12 months.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23CZB-8"><span class="LegAddition">(8)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">In this section “</span><span class="LegTerm"><span class="LegAddition">former relevant child</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” has the meaning given by section 23C(1).</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section--23CA-"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition"> 23CA </span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Further assistance to pursue education or training</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23CA-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">This section applies to a person if—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23CA-1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">he is under the age of twenty-five or of such lesser age as may be prescribed by the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span><span class="LegAddition">;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23CA-1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">he is a former relevant child (within the meaning of section 23C) towards whom the duties imposed by subsections (2), (3) and (4) of that section no longer subsist; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23CA-1-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">he has informed the responsible local authority that he is pursuing, or wishes to pursue, a programme of education or training.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23CA-2"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(2)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">It is the duty of the responsible local authority to provide a personal adviser for a person to whom this section applies.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23CA-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">It is the duty of the responsible local authority—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23CA-3-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">to carry out an assessment of the needs of a person to whom this section applies with a view to determining what assistance (if any) it would be appropriate for them to provide to him under this section; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23CA-3-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">to prepare a pathway plan for him.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23CA-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">It is the duty of the responsible local authority to give assistance of a kind referred to subsection (5) to a person to whom this section applies to the extent that his educational or training needs require it.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23CA-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The kinds of assistance are—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23CA-5-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">contributing to expenses incurred by him in living near the place where he is, or will be, receiving education or training; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23CA-5-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">making a grant to enable him to meet expenses connected with his education and training.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23CA-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">If a person to whom this section applies pursues a programme of education or training in accordance with the pathway plan prepared for him, the duties of the local authority under this section (and under any provision applicable to the pathway plan prepared under this section for that person) subsist for as long as he continues to pursue that programme.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23CA-7"><span class="LegAddition">(7)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">For the purposes of subsection (6), the local authority may disregard any interruption in the person's pursuance of a programme of education or training if they are satisfied that he will resume it as soon as is reasonably practicable.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23CA-8"><span class="LegAddition">(8)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Subsections (7) to (9) of section 17 apply to assistance given to a person under this section as they apply to assistance given to or in respect of a child under that section, but with the omission in subsection (8) of the words “and of each of his parents”.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23CA-9"><span class="LegAddition">(9)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Subsection (5) of section 24B applies to a person to whom this section applies as it applies to a person to whom subsection (3) of that section applies.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23CA-10"><span class="LegAddition">(10)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Nothing in this section affects the duty imposed by subsection (5A) of section 23C to the extent that it subsists in relation to a person to whom this section applies; but the duty to make a payment under that subsection may be taken into account in the assessment of the person's needs under subsection (3)(a).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23CA-11"><span class="LegAddition">(11)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> In this section “ </span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-the-responsible-local-authority"><span class="LegAddition">the responsible local authority</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ” means, in relation to a person to whom this section applies, the local authority which had the duties provided for in section 23C towards him. </span> </span> </p><div class="LegClearPblock"/><h3 class="LegPblock"><span class="LegPblockTitle"><span class="LegAddition"> Personal advisers and pathway plans</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-23D"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">23D</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst"> Personal advisers.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23D-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> may by regulations require local authorities to appoint a personal adviser for children or young persons of a prescribed description who have reached the age of sixteen but not the age of </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">twenty-five</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> who are not—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23D-1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">children who are relevant children for the purposes of section 23A;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23D-1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the young persons referred to in section 23C; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23D-1-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the children referred to in paragraph 19C of Schedule 2.</span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">; or</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23D-1-"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">“(d)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">persons to whom section 23CA applies.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23D-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Personal advisers appointed under or by virtue of this Part shall (in addition to any other functions) have such functions as the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> prescribes.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23D-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where a local authority in England ceases to be under a duty to provide a personal adviser for a person under any provision of this Part, that does not affect any other duty under this Part to provide a personal adviser for the person.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23D-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where a local authority in England has more than one duty under this Part to provide a personal adviser for a person, each duty is discharged by the provision of the same personal adviser (the local authority are not required to provide more than one personal adviser for the person).</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-23E"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">23E</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Pathway plans.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23E-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> In this Part, a reference to a “ </span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-pathway-plan"><span class="LegAddition">pathway plan</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ” is to a plan setting out— </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23E-1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in the case of a plan prepared under paragraph 19B of Schedule 2—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-23E-1-a-i"><span class="LegAddition">(i)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">the advice, assistance and support which the local authority intend to provide a child under this Part, both while they are looking after him and later; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-23E-1-a-ii"><span class="LegAddition">(ii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">when they might cease to look after him; </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23E-1-aa"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(aa)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">in the case of a plan prepared under section 23CZB, the advice and support that the local authority intend to provide;</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23E-1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in the case of a plan prepared under section 23B </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">or 23CA</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> , the advice, assistance and support which the local authority intend to provide under this Part,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">and dealing with such other matters (if any) as may be prescribed </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">in regulations made by the Secretary of State</span></span><span class="LegAddition">.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23E-1ZA"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(1ZA)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">A local authority may carry out an assessment under section 23CZB(5) of a person's needs at the same time as any assessment of the person's needs is made under section 23CA(3).</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23E-1A"> <span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(1A )</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">A local authority may carry out an assessment under section 23B(3) </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">, 23CZB(5) </span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> or 23CA(3) of a person's needs at the same time as any assessment of his needs is made under—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23E-1A-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">the Chronically Sick and Disabled Persons Act 1970;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23E-1A-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">Part 4 of the Education Act 1996 </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">or Part 3 of the Children and Families Act 2014</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> (in the case of an assessment under section 23B(3));</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23E-1A-ba"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(ba)</span></span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">Part 2 of the Additional Learning Needs and Education Tribunal (Wales) Act 2018;</span></span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23E-1A-c"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">the Disabled Persons (Services, Consultation and Representation) Act 1986; or</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23E-1A-d"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(d)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">any other enactment.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23E-1B"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(1B )</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">The </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> may by regulations make provision as to assessments for the purposes of section 23B(3) </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">, 23CZB(5) </span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> or 23CA.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23E-1C"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(1C )</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">Regulations under subsection (1B) may in particular make provision about—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23E-1C-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">who is to be consulted in relation to an assessment;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23E-1C-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">the way in which an assessment is to be carried out, by whom and when;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23E-1C-c"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">the recording of the results of an assessment;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-23E-1C-d"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(d)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">the considerations to which a local authority are to have regard in carrying out an assessment.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23E-1D"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(1D )</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">A local authority shall keep each pathway plan prepared by them under section 23B </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">, 23CZB </span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> or 23CA under review.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-23E-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> may by regulations make provision about pathway plans and their review.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-24"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">24</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Persons qualifying for advice and assistance.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-24-1"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> In this Part “</span></span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-a-person-qualifying-for-advice-and-assistance"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">a person qualifying for advice and assistance</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">” means a person to whom subsection (1A) or (1B) applies. </span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-24-1A"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(1A)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">This subsection applies to a person—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24-1A-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">who has reached the age of sixteen but not the age of twenty-one;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24-1A-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">with respect to whom a special guardianship order is in force (or, if he has reached the age of eighteen, was in force when he reached that age); and</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24-1A-c"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">who was, immediately before the making of that order, looked after by a local authority.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-24-1B"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(1B)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">This subsection applies to a person to whom subsection (1A) does not apply, and who—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24-1B-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">is under twenty-one; and</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24-1B-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">at any time after reaching the age of sixteen but while still a child was, but is no longer, looked after, accommodated or fostered.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-24-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> In </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> subsection (1B)(b)</span></span><span class="LegAddition">, “</span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-looked-after-accommodated-or-fostered"><span class="LegAddition">looked after, accommodated or fostered</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” means— </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24-2-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">looked after by a local authority </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(without subsequently being looked after by a local authority in Wales)</span></span><span class="LegAddition">;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24-2-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">accommodated by or on behalf of a voluntary organisation;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24-2-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">accommodated in a private children’s home;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24-2-d"><span class="LegAddition">(d)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">accommodated for a consecutive period of at least three months—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-24-2-d-i"><span class="LegAddition">(i)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition"> by any </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution"> Local Health Board</span></span><span class="LegAddition">, Special Health Authority </span><span class="LegAddition"> ... </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution"> or by a local authority in the exercise of education functions</span></span><span class="LegAddition">, or </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-24-2-d-ii"><span class="LegAddition">(ii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition"> in any care home or independent hospital or in any accommodation provided </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">pursuant to arrangements made by the Secretary of State, </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">NHS England</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> or </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an integrated care board</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> under the National Health Service Act 2006 or</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> by a National Health Service trust </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">or an </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">NHS</span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> foundation trust</span></span> <span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">, or by a local authority in Wales in the exercise of education functions</span></span><span class="LegAddition">; or </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24-2-e"><span class="LegAddition">(e)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">privately fostered.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-24-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Subsection (2)(d) applies even if the period of three months mentioned there began before the child reached the age of sixteen.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-24-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">In the case of a person qualifying for advice and assistance by virtue of subsection (2)(a), it is the duty of the local authority which last looked after him to take such steps as they think appropriate to contact him at such times as they think appropriate with a view to discharging their functions under sections 24A and 24B.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-24-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> In each of sections 24A and 24B, the local authority under the duty or having the power mentioned there (“ </span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-the-relevant-authority"><span class="LegAddition">the relevant authority</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ”) is— </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24-5-za"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(za)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">in the case of a person to whom subsection (1A) applies, a local authority determined in accordance with regulations made by the </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24-5-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in the case of a person qualifying for advice and assistance by virtue of subsection (2)(a), the local authority which last looked after him; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24-5-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in the case of any other person qualifying for advice and assistance, the local authority within whose area the person is (if he has asked for help of a kind which can be given under section 24A or 24B).</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section--24A-"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"> <span class="LegAddition"> 24A </span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Advice and assistance.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-24A-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The relevant authority shall consider whether the conditions in subsection (2) are satisfied in relation to a person qualifying for advice and assistance.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-24A-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The conditions are that—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24A-2-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">he needs help of a kind which they can give under this section or section 24B; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24A-2-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in the case of a person </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">to whom section 24(1A) applies, or to whom section 24(1B) applies and </span></span><span class="LegAddition"> who was not being looked after by any local authority </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">or local authority in Wales</span></span><span class="LegAddition">, they are satisfied that the person by whom he was being looked after does not have the necessary facilities for advising or befriending him.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-24A-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">If the conditions are satisfied—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24A-3-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">they shall advise and befriend him if </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">he is a person to whom section 24(1A) applies, or he is a person to whom section 24(1B) applies and</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> he was being looked after by a local authority </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(without subsequently being looked after by a local authority in Wales)</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> or was accommodated by or on behalf of a voluntary organisation; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24A-3-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in any other case they may do so.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-24A-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where as a result of this section a local authority are under a duty, or are empowered, to advise and befriend a person, they may also give him assistance.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-24A-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The assistance may be in kind </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">and, in exceptional circumstances, assistance may be given—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24A-5-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">by providing accommodation, if in the circumstances assistance may not be given in respect of the accommodation under section 24B, or</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24A-5-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">in cash</span></span><span class="LegAddition">.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-24A-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Subsections (7) to (9) of section 17 apply in relation to assistance given under this section or section 24B as they apply in relation to assistance given under that section.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section--24B-"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"> <span class="LegAddition"> 24B </span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Employment, education and training.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-24B-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The relevant local authority may give assistance to any person who qualifies for advice and assistance by virtue of </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">section 24(1A) or</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> section 24(2)(a) by contributing to expenses incurred by him in living near the place where he is, or will be, employed or seeking employment.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-24B-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The relevant local authority may give assistance to a person to whom subsection (3) applies by—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24B-2-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">contributing to expenses incurred by the person in question in living near the place where he is, or will be, receiving education or training; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24B-2-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">making a grant to enable him to meet expenses connected with his education or training.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-24B-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">This subsection applies to any person who—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24B-3-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">is under </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">twenty-five</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24B-3-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">qualifies for advice and assistance by virtue of </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">section 24(1A) or</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> section 24(2)(a), or would have done so if he were under twenty-one.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-24B-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where a local authority are assisting a person under subsection (2) they may disregard any interruption in his attendance on the course if he resumes it as soon as is reasonably practicable.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-24B-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where the local authority are satisfied that a person to whom subsection (3) applies who is in full-time further or higher education needs accommodation during a vacation because his term-time accommodation is not available to him then, they shall give him assistance by—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24B-5-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">providing him with suitable accommodation during the vacation; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24B-5-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">paying him enough to enable him to secure such accommodation himself.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-24B-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> The </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> may prescribe the meaning of “ </span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-full-time"><span class="LegAddition">full-time</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ”, “ </span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-further-education"><span class="LegAddition">further education</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ”, “ </span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-higher-education"><span class="LegAddition">higher education</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ” and “ </span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-vacation"><span class="LegAddition">vacation</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ” for the purposes of subsection (5). </span> </span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-24C"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">24C</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Information.</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-24C-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where it appears to a local authority that a person—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24C-1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">with whom they are under a duty to keep in touch under section 23B, 23C or 24; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24C-1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">whom they have been advising and befriending under section 24A; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24C-1-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">to whom they have been giving assistance under section 24B,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">proposes to live, or is living, in the area of another local authority </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">, or in the area of a local authority in Wales</span></span><span class="LegAddition">, they must inform that other authority.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-24C-2"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(2)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Where a child who is accommodated in England—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24C-2-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">by a voluntary organisation or in a private children’s home;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24C-2-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">by or on behalf of any Local Health Board or Special Health Authority;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24C-2-c"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(c)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">by or on behalf of </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegSubstitution">an integrated care board</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution"> or </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegSubstitution">NHS England</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24C-2-d"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(d)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">by or on behalf of a local authority in the exercise of education functions;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24C-2-e"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(e)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">by or on behalf of a local authority in Wales in the exercise of education functions;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24C-2-f"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(f)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">in any care home or independent hospital; or</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24C-2-g"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(g)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution"> in any accommodation provided by or on behalf of a National Health Service trust or by or on behalf of an </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">NHS</span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution"> Foundation Trust, </span></span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">ceases to be so accommodated after reaching the age of 16, the person by whom or on whose behalf the child was accommodated or who carries on or manages the home or hospital (as the case may be) must inform the local authority or local authority in Wales within whose area the child proposes to live.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-24C-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Subsection (2) only applies, by virtue of </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">any of paragraphs (b) to (g)</span></span><span class="LegAddition">, if the accommodation has been provided for a consecutive period of at least three months.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-24C-4"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(4)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">In a case where a child was accommodated by or on behalf of a local authority, or a local authority in Wales, in the exercise of education functions, subsection (2) applies only if the authority who accommodated the child is different from the authority within whose area the child proposes to live.</span></span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-24D"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">24D</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">Representations: sections 23A to 24B.</span></span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-24D-1"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">Every local authority shall establish a procedure for considering representations (including complaints) made to them by—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24D-1-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">a relevant child for the purposes of section 23A or a young person falling within section 23C;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24D-1-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">a person qualifying for advice and assistance; or</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-24D-1-c"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">a person falling within section 24B(2),</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">about the discharge of their functions under this Part in relation to him.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-24D-1A"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(1A)</span></span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">Regulations may be made by the </span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> imposing time limits on the making of representations under subsection (1).</span></span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-24D-2"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">In considering representations under subsection (1), a local authority shall comply with regulations (if any) made by the </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> for the purposes of this subsection.</span></span></span> </p><div class="LegClearPblock"/><h3 class="LegPblock"><span class="LegPblockTitle">Secure accommodation<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England, Wales and Scotland"><span class="btr"/>E+W+S<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section--25-"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"> 25 </span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst"> Use of accommodation for restricting liberty.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England, Wales and Scotland"><span class="btr"/>E+W+S<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-25-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Subject to the following provisions of this section, a child who is being looked after by a local authority <span class="LegSubstitution">in England or Wales</span> may not be placed, and, if placed, may not be kept, in accommodation <span class="LegAddition">in England</span> <span class="LegAddition">or Scotland</span> provided for the purpose of restricting liberty (“secure accommodation”) unless it appears—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-25-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">that—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-25-1-a-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">he has a history of absconding and is likely to abscond from any other description of accommodation; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-25-1-a-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">if he absconds, he is likely to suffer significant harm; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-25-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">that if he is kept in any other description of accommodation he is likely to injure himself or other persons.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-25-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The <span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span> may by regulations—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-25-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">specify a maximum period—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-25-2-a-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">beyond which a child may not be kept in secure accommodation <span class="LegAddition">in England</span> <span class="LegAddition">or Scotland</span> without the authority of the court; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-25-2-a-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">for which the court may authorise a child to be kept in secure accommodation <span class="LegAddition">in England</span> <span class="LegAddition">or Scotland</span> ;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-25-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">empower the court from time to time to authorise a child to be kept in secure accommodation <span class="LegAddition">in England</span> <span class="LegAddition">or Scotland</span> for such further period as the regulations may specify; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-25-2-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">provide that applications to the court under this section shall be made only by local authorities.<span class="LegSubstitution">in England or Wales</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-25-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">It shall be the duty of a court hearing an application under this section to determine whether any relevant criteria for keeping a child in secure accommodation are satisfied in his case.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-25-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">If a court determines that any such criteria are satisfied, it shall make an order authorising the child to be kept in secure accommodation and specifying the maximum period for which he may be so kept.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-25-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">On any adjournment of the hearing of an application under this section, a court may make an interim order permitting the child to be kept during the period of the adjournment in secure accommodation.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-25-5A"><span class="LegAddition">(5A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where a local authority in England or Wales are authorised under this section to keep a child in secure accommodation in Scotland, the person in charge of the accommodation may restrict the child’s liberty to the extent that the person considers appropriate, having regard to the terms of any order made by a court under this section.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-25-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">No court shall exercise the powers conferred by this section in respect of a child who is not legally represented in that court unless, having been informed of his right to apply for <span class="LegSubstitution">the provision of representation under Part 1 of the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012</span> and having had the opportunity to do so, he refused or failed to apply.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-25-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The <span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span> may by regulations provide that—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-25-7-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">this section shall or shall not apply to any description of children specified in the regulations;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-25-7-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">this section shall have effect in relation to children of a description specified in the regulations subject to such modifications as may be so specified;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-25-7-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">such other provisions as may be so specified shall have effect for the purpose of determining whether a child of a description specified in the regulations may be placed or kept in secure accommodation <span class="LegAddition">in England</span> <span class="LegAddition">or Scotland</span> .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-25-7-d"><span class="LegAddition">(d)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a child may only be placed in secure accommodation that is of a description specified in the regulations (and the description may in particular be framed by reference to whether the accommodation, or the person providing it, has been approved by the Secretary of State or the Scottish Ministers).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-25-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The giving of an authorisation under this section shall not prejudice any power of any court in England and Wales or Scotland to give directions relating to the child to whom the authorisation relates.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-25-8A"><span class="LegAddition">(8A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Sections 168 and 169(1) to (4) of the Children’s Hearings (Scotland) Act </span><a class="LegCitation" href="http://www.legislation.gov.uk/id/asp/2011/1" rel="cite" title="Go to item of legislation"><span class="LegAddition">2011 (asp 1)</span></a><span class="LegAddition"> (enforcement and absconding) apply in relation to an order under subsection (4) above as they apply in relation to the orders mentioned in section 168(3) or 169(1)(a) of that Act.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-25-9">(9)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">This section is subject to section 20(8).</span> </p><div class="LegClearPblock"/><h3 class="LegPblock"><span class="LegPblockTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Independent reviewing officers</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-25A"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">25A</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst"><span class="LegAddition">Appointment of independent reviewing officer</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-25A-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">If a local authority are looking after a child, they must appoint an individual as the independent reviewing officer for that child's case.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-25A-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The initial appointment under subsection (1) must be made before the child's case is first reviewed in accordance with regulations made under section 26.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-25A-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">If a vacancy arises in respect of a child's case, the local authority must make another appointment under subsection (1) as soon as is practicable.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-25A-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">An appointee must be of a description prescribed in regulations made by the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span><span class="LegAddition">.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-25B"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">25B</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Functions of the independent reviewing officer</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-25B-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The independent reviewing officer must—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-25B-1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">monitor the performance by the local authority of their functions in relation to the child's case;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-25B-1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">participate, in accordance with regulations made by the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span><span class="LegAddition">, in any review of the child's case;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-25B-1-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">ensure that any ascertained wishes and feelings of the child concerning the case are given due consideration by the local authority;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-25B-1-d"><span class="LegAddition">(d)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">perform any other function which is prescribed in regulations made by the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span><span class="LegAddition">.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-25B-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">An independent reviewing officer's functions must be performed—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-25B-2-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in such manner (if any) as may be prescribed in regulations made by the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span><span class="LegAddition">; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-25B-2-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">having regard to such guidance as that authority may issue in relation to the discharge of those functions.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-25B-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">If the independent reviewing officer considers it appropriate to do so, the child's case may be referred by that officer to—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-25B-3-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"> an officer of the Children and Family Court Advisory and Support Service; </span><span class="LegAddition"> ... </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-25B-3-b"> <span class="LegAddition">( b )</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-25B-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">If the independent reviewing officer is not an officer of the local authority, it is the duty of the authority—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-25B-4-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">to co-operate with that individual; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-25B-4-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">to take all such reasonable steps as that individual may require of them to enable that individual's functions under this section to be performed satisfactorily.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-25C"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">25C</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">Referred cases</span></span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-25C-1"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">In relation to children whose cases are referred to officers under section 25B(3), the Lord Chancellor may by regulations—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-25C-1-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">extend any functions of the officers in respect of family proceedings (within the meaning of section 12 of the Criminal Justice and Court Services Act 2000) to other proceedings;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-25C-1-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">require any functions of the officers to be performed in the manner prescribed by the regulations.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-25C-2"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span></span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section--26-"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"> <span class="LegAddition"> 26 </span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition"> Review of cases and inquiries into representations.</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-26-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> may make regulations requiring the case of each child who is being looked after by a local authority to be reviewed in accordance with the provisions of the regulations.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-26-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The regulations may, in particular, make provision—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-26-2-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">as to the manner in which each case is to be reviewed;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-26-2-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">as to the considerations to which the local authority are to have regard in reviewing each case;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-26-2-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">as to the time when each case is first to be reviewed and the frequency of subsequent reviews;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-26-2-d"><span class="LegAddition">(d)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">requiring the authority, before conducting any review, to seek the views of—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-26-2-d-i"><span class="LegAddition">(i)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">the child;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-26-2-d-ii"><span class="LegAddition">(ii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">his parents;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-26-2-d-iii"><span class="LegAddition">(iii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">any person who is not a parent of his but who has parental responsibility for him; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-26-2-d-iv"><span class="LegAddition">(iv)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">any other person whose views the authority consider to be relevant,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">including, in particular, the views of those persons in relation to any particular matter which is to be considered in the course of the review;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-26-2-e"><span class="LegAddition">(e)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"> requiring the authority </span><span class="LegAddition"> . . . , in the case of a child who is in their care </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-26-2-e-i"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(i)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">to keep the section 31A plan for the child under review and, if they are of the opinion that some change is required, to revise the plan, or make a new plan, accordingly,</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-26-2-e-ii"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(ii)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">to consider</span></span><span class="LegAddition">, whether an application should be made to discharge the care order;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-26-2-f"><span class="LegAddition">(f)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"> requiring the authority </span><span class="LegAddition"> . . . , in the case of a child in accommodation provided by the authority </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-26-2-f-i"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(i)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">if there is no plan for the future care of the child, to prepare one,</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-26-2-f-ii"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(ii)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">if there is such a plan for the child, to keep it under review and, if they are of the opinion that some change is required, to revise the plan or make a new plan, accordingly,</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-26-2-f-iii"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(iii)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">to consider</span></span><span class="LegAddition">, whether the accommodation accords with the requirements of this Part;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-26-2-g"><span class="LegAddition">(g)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">requiring the authority to inform the child, so far as is reasonably practicable, of any steps he may take under this Act;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-26-2-h"><span class="LegAddition">(h)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">requiring the authority to make arrangements, including arrangements with such other bodies providing services as it considers appropriate, to implement any decision which they propose to make in the course, or as a result, of the review;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-26-2-i"><span class="LegAddition">(i)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">requiring the authority to notify details of the result of the review and of any decision taken by them in consequence of the review to—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-26-2-i-i"><span class="LegAddition">(i)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">the child;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-26-2-i-ii"><span class="LegAddition">(ii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">his parents;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-26-2-i-iii"><span class="LegAddition">(iii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">any person who is not a parent of his but who has parental responsibility for him; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-26-2-i-iv"><span class="LegAddition">(iv)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">any other person whom they consider ought to be notified;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-26-2-j"><span class="LegAddition">(j)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">requiring the authority to monitor the arrangements which they have made with a view to ensuring that they comply with the regulations.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-26-2-k"> <span class="LegAddition">( k )</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-26-2A"> <span class="LegAddition">( 2A )</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-26-2B"> <span class="LegAddition">(2B)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-26-2C"> <span class="LegAddition">( 2C )</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-26-2D"> <span class="LegAddition">( 2D )</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-26-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Every local authority shall establish a procedure for considering any representations (including any complaint) made to them by—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-26-3-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any child who is being looked after by them or who is not being looked after by them but is in need;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-26-3-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a parent of his;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-26-3-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any person who is not a parent of his but who has parental responsibility for him;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-26-3-d"><span class="LegAddition">(d)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any local authority foster parent;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-26-3-e"><span class="LegAddition">(e)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">such other person as the authority consider has a sufficient interest in the child’s welfare to warrant his representations being considered by them,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">about the discharge by the authority of any of their </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">qualifying functions </span></span><span class="LegAddition">in relation to the child.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-26-3A"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(3A)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">The following are qualifying functions for the purposes of subsection (3)—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-26-3A-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">functions under this Part,</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-26-3A-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">such functions under Part 4 or 5 as are specified by the </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> in regulations.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-26-3B"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(3B)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">The duty under subsection (3) extends to representations (including complaints) made to the authority by—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-26-3B-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">any person mentioned in section 3(1) of the Adoption and Children Act 2002 (persons for whose needs provision is made by the Adoption Service) and any other person to whom arrangements for the provision of adoption support services (within the meaning of that Act) extend,</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-26-3B-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">such other person as the authority consider has sufficient interest in a child who is or may be adopted to warrant his representations being considered by them,</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">about the discharge by the authority of such functions under the Adoption and Children Act 2002 as are specified by the </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> in regulations.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-26-3C"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(3C)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">The duty under subsection (3) extends to any representations (including complaints) which are made to the authority by—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-26-3C-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">a child with respect to whom a special guardianship order is in force,</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-26-3C-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">a special guardian or a parent of such a child,</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-26-3C-c"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">any other person the authority consider has a sufficient interest in the welfare of such a child to warrant his representations being considered by them, or</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-26-3C-d"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(d)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">any person who has applied for an assessment under section 14F(3) or (4),</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">about the discharge by the authority of such functions under section 14F as may be specified by the </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> in regulations.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-26-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The procedure shall ensure that at least one person who is not a member or officer of the authority takes part in—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-26-4-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the consideration; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-26-4-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any discussions which are held by the authority about the action (if any) to be taken in relation to the child in the light of the consideration</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">but this subsection is subject to subsection (5A).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-26-4A"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(4A)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">Regulations may be made by the </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> imposing time limits on the making of representations under this section.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-26-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">In carrying out any consideration of representations under this section a local authority shall comply with any regulations made by the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> for the purpose of regulating the procedure to be followed.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-26-5A"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(5A)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">Regulations under subsection (5) may provide that subsection (4) does not apply in relation to any consideration or discussion which takes place as part of a procedure for which provision is made by the regulations for the purpose of resolving informally the matters raised in the representations.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-26-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> may make regulations requiring local authorities to monitor the arrangements that they have made with a view to ensuring that they comply with any regulations made for the purposes of subsection (5).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-26-7"><span class="LegAddition">(7)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where any representation has been considered under the procedure established by a local authority under this section, the authority shall—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-26-7-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">have due regard to the findings of those considering the representation; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-26-7-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">take such steps as are reasonably practicable to notify (in writing)—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-26-7-b-i"><span class="LegAddition">(i)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">the person making the representation;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-26-7-b-ii"><span class="LegAddition">(ii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">the child (if the authority consider that he has sufficient understanding); and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-26-7-b-iii"><span class="LegAddition">(iii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">such other persons (if any) as appear to the authority to be likely to be affected,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">of the authority’s decision in the matter and their reasons for taking that decision and of any action which they have taken, or propose to take.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-26-8"><span class="LegAddition">(8)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Every local authority shall give such publicity to their procedure for considering representations under this section as they consider appropriate.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-26ZA"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">26ZA</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">Representations: further consideration</span></span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegRHS LegP1Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . </span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section--26ZB-"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"> <span class="LegAddition"> 26ZB </span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Representations: further consideration (Wales)</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegRHS LegP1Text"><span class="LegAddition">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-26A"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">26A</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition"> Advocacy services</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-26A-1"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">Every local authority shall make arrangements for the provision of assistance to—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-26A-1-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">persons who make or intend to make representations under section 24D; and</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-26A-1-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">children who make or intend to make representations under section 26.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-26A-2"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">The assistance provided under the arrangements shall include assistance by way of representation.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-26A-2A"> <span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">( 2A )</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-26A-3"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">The arrangements—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-26A-3-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">shall secure that a person may not provide assistance if he is a person who is prevented from doing so by regulations made by the </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">; and</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-26A-3-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">shall comply with any other provision made by the regulations in relation to the arrangements.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-26A-4"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">The </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> may make regulations requiring local authorities to monitor the steps that they have taken with a view to ensuring that they comply with regulations made for the purposes of subsection (3).</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-26A-5"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">Every local authority shall give such publicity to their arrangements for the provision of assistance under this section as they consider appropriate.</span></span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section--27-"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"> <span class="LegAddition"> 27 </span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition"> Co-operation between authorities.</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-27-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> Where it appears to a local authority that any authority </span><span class="LegAddition">... mentioned in subsection (3) could, by taking any specified action, help in the exercise of any of their functions under this Part, they may request the help of that other authority </span><span class="LegAddition">... specifying the action in question. </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-27-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">An authority whose help is so requested shall comply with the request if it is compatible with their own statutory or other duties and obligations and does not unduly prejudice the discharge of any of their functions.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-27-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">authorities</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> are—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-27-3-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any local authority;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-27-3-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"> . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-27-3-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any local housing authority;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-27-3-ca"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(ca)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">NHS England</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-27-3-d"><span class="LegAddition">(d)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"> any </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">integrated care board,</span></span> <span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Local Health Board</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">, Special Health Authority</span></span> <span class="LegAddition">... </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">, National Health Service trust or </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">NHS</span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution"> foundation trust</span></span><span class="LegAddition">; </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-27-3-da"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(da)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">any local authority in Wales</span></span><span class="LegAddition">; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-27-3-e"><span class="LegAddition">(e)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any person authorised by the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> for the purposes of this section.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-27-3A"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(3A)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">The Secretary of State must not authorise the Welsh Ministers under subsection (3)(e) without their consent.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-27-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section--28-"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"> <span class="LegAddition"> 28 </span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition"> Consultation with local education authorities.</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegRHS LegP1Text"><span class="LegAddition"> . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . </span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section--29-"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"> <span class="LegAddition"> 29 </span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition"> Recoupment of cost of providing services </span><span class="LegAddition">etc.</span> <span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="part-III-crossheading-independent-reviewing-officers_section-29-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where a local authority provide any service under section 17 or 18, other than advice, guidance or counselling, they may recover from a person specified in subsection (4) such charge for the service as they consider reasonable.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="part-III-crossheading-independent-reviewing-officers_section-29-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where the authority are satisfied that that person’s means are insufficient for it to be reasonably practicable for him to pay the charge, they shall not require him to pay more than he can reasonably be expected to pay.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="part-III-crossheading-independent-reviewing-officers_section-29-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">No person shall be liable to pay any charge under subsection (1) </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">for a service provided under section 17 or section 18(1) or (5)</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> at any time when he is in receipt </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">of universal credit (except in such circumstances as may be prescribed),</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> of income support </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">under</span></span> <span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">Part VII of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992</span></span> <span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">, of any element of child tax credit other than the family element, of working tax credit</span></span> <span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">, of an income-based jobseeker's allowance or of an income-related employment and support allowance</span></span><span class="LegAddition">.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="part-III-crossheading-independent-reviewing-officers_section-29-3A"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(3A)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">No person shall be liable to pay any charge under subsection (1) for a service provided under section 18(2) or (6) at any time when he is in receipt </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">of universal credit (except in such circumstances as may be prescribed),</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> of income support under Part VII of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">, of an income-based jobseeker's allowance or of an income-related employment and support allowance</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="part-III-crossheading-independent-reviewing-officers_section-29-3B"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(3B)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">No person shall be liable to pay any charge under subsection (1) for a service provided under section 18(2) or (6) at any time when—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="part-III-crossheading-independent-reviewing-officers_section-29-3B-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">he is in receipt of guarantee state pension credit under section 1(3)(a) of the State Pension Credit Act 2002, or</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="part-III-crossheading-independent-reviewing-officers_section-29-3B-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">he is a member of a </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">couple</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> (within the meaning of that Act) the other member of which is in receipt of guarantee state pension credit.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="part-III-crossheading-independent-reviewing-officers_section-29-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The persons are—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="part-III-crossheading-independent-reviewing-officers_section-29-4-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">where the service is provided for a child under sixteen, each of his parents;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="part-III-crossheading-independent-reviewing-officers_section-29-4-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">where it is provided for a child who has reached the age of sixteen, the child himself; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="part-III-crossheading-independent-reviewing-officers_section-29-4-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">where it is provided for a member of the child’s family, that member.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="part-III-crossheading-independent-reviewing-officers_section-29-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Any charge under subsection (1) may, without prejudice to any other method of recovery, be recovered summarily as a civil debt.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="part-III-crossheading-independent-reviewing-officers_section-29-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> Part III of Schedule 2 makes provision in connection with contributions towards the maintenance of children who are being looked after by local authorities and consists of the re-enactment with modifications of provisions in Part V of the </span><span class="LegAddition"> Child Care Act 1980. </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="part-III-crossheading-independent-reviewing-officers_section-29-7"><span class="LegAddition">(7)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where a local authority provide any accommodation under section 20(1) for a child who was (immediately before they began to look after him) ordinarily resident within the area of another local authority </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">or the area of a local authority in Wales</span></span><span class="LegAddition">, they may recover from that other authority any reasonable expenses incurred by them in providing the accommodation and maintaining him.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="part-III-crossheading-independent-reviewing-officers_section-29-8"><span class="LegAddition">(8)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where a local authority provide accommodation under section 21(1) or (2)(a) or (b) for a child who is ordinarily resident within the area of another local authority </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">or the area of a local authority in Wales</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> and they are not maintaining him in—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="part-III-crossheading-independent-reviewing-officers_section-29-8-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a community home provided by them;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="part-III-crossheading-independent-reviewing-officers_section-29-8-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a controlled community home; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="part-III-crossheading-independent-reviewing-officers_section-29-8-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a hospital vested in the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State or</span></span> <span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">, the Welsh Ministers</span></span> <span class="LegAddition">... </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">or any other hospital made available pursuant to arrangements made by </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">the Secretary of State, </span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">NHS England</span></span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> or </span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an integrated care board</span></span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> under the National Health Service Act 2006 or by</span></span></span> <span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">..., a </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Local Health Board</span></span></span> <span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">...,</span></span><span class="LegAddition">,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">they may recover from that other authority any reasonable expenses incurred by them in providing the accommodation and maintaining him.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="part-III-crossheading-independent-reviewing-officers_section-29-9"><span class="LegAddition">(9)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">Except where subsection (10) </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">or subsection (11)</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> applies,</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> Where a local authority comply with any request under section 27(2) </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">or section 164A(2) of the Social Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014 (duty of other persons to co-operate and provide information)</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> in relation to a child or other person who is not ordinarily resident within their area, they may recover from the local authority </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">or a local authority in Wales</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> in whose area the child or person is ordinarily resident any </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">reasonable expenses</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> incurred by them in respect of that person.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="part-III-crossheading-independent-reviewing-officers_section-29-10"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(10)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> Where a local authority (“</span></span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-authority-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">authority A</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">”) comply with any request under section 27(2) from another local authority (“</span></span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-authority-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">authority B</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">”) in relation to a child or other person— </span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="part-III-crossheading-independent-reviewing-officers_section-29-10-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">whose responsible authority is authority B for the purposes of section 23B or 23C; or</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="part-III-crossheading-independent-reviewing-officers_section-29-10-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">whom authority B are advising or befriending or to whom they are giving assistance by virtue of section 24(5)(a),</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">authority A may recover from authority B any reasonable expenses incurred by them in respect of that person.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-29-11"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(11)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">Where a local authority (“authority A”) comply with any request under section 164A(2) of the Social Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014 (duty of other persons to co-operate and provide information) from a local authority in Wales (“authority B”) in relation to a person, and authority B are the responsible local authority for that person (within the meaning of section 104(5)(b) (except for category 4 young persons) or (d) of that Act), then authority A may recover from authority B any reasonable expenses incurred by them in respect of that person.</span></span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section--30-"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"> <span class="LegAddition"> 30 </span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition"> Miscellaneous.</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-30-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Nothing in this Part shall affect any duty imposed on a local authority by or under any other enactment.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-30-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Any question arising under section 20(2), 21(3) or 29(7) to (9) as to the ordinary residence of a child shall be determined by agreement between the local authorities concerned or, in default of agreement, by the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span> <span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">but see subsection (2C)</span></span><span class="LegAddition">.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-30-2A"> <span class="LegAddition">( 2A )</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-30-2B"> <span class="LegAddition">( 2B )</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-30-2C"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(2C)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">Any question arising as to whether a child is ordinarily resident—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-30-2C-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">in the area of a local authority under section 20(2), 21(3) or 29(7) to (9), or</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-30-2C-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">in the area of a local authority in Wales under section 76(2), 77(4) or (5), or 193(3) to (6) of the Social Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014,</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">shall be determined by the local authority and local authority in Wales concerned, or in default of agreement, by the Secretary of State.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-30-2D"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(2D)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">The Secretary of State must consult the Welsh Ministers before making a determination under subsection (2C).</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-30-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-30-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Secretary of State</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> may make regulations for determining, as respects any </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">education</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> functions specified in the regulations, whether a child who is being looked after by a local authority is to be treated, for purposes so specified, as a child of parents of sufficient resources or as a child of parents without resources.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section--30A-"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">  30A </span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle">Meaning of appropriate national authority<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegRHS LegP1Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
</p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="part-IV"/><div class="LegClearPart"/><h2 class="LegPart"><span class="LegPartNo">Part IV<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span><span class="LegPartTitle"> Care and Supervision</span></h2><h3 class="LegPblockFirst"><span class="LegPblockTitle"> General<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-31"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">31</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst"> Care and Supervision<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-31-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">On the application of any local authority or authorised person, the court may make an order—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-31-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">placing the child with respect to whom the application is made in the care of a designated local authority; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-31-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">putting him under the supervision of a designated local authority . . ..</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-31-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A court may only make a care order or supervision order if it is satisfied—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-31-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">that the child concerned is suffering, or is likely to suffer, significant harm; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-31-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">that the harm, or likelihood of harm, is attributable to—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-31-2-b-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">the care given to the child, or likely to be given to him if the order were not made, not being what it would be reasonable to expect a parent to give to him; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-31-2-b-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">the child’s being beyond parental control.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-31-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">No care order or supervision order may be made with respect to a child who has reached the age of seventeen (or sixteen, in the case of a child who is married).</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-31-3A"><span class="LegSubstitution">(3A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">A court deciding whether to make a care order—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-31-3A-a"><span class="LegSubstitution">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">is required to consider the permanence provisions of the section 31A plan for the child concerned, but</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-31-3A-b"><span class="LegSubstitution">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">is not required to consider the remainder of the section 31A plan, subject to section 34(11).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-31-3B"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegSubstitution">(3B)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegSubstitution">For the purposes of subsection (3A), the permanence provisions of a section 31A plan are—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-31-3B-a"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegSubstitution">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegSubstitution">such of the plan's provisions setting out the long-term plan for the upbringing of the child concerned as provide for any of the following—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-31-3B-a-i"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegSubstitution">(i)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegSubstitution">the child to live with any parent of the child's or with any other member of, or any friend of, the child's family;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-31-3B-a-ii"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegSubstitution">(ii)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegSubstitution">adoption;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-31-3B-a-iii"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegSubstitution">(iii)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegSubstitution">long-term care not within sub-paragraph (i) or (ii);</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-31-3B-b"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegSubstitution">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegSubstitution">such of the plan's provisions as set out any of the following—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-31-3B-b-i"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegSubstitution">(i)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegSubstitution">the impact on the child concerned of any harm that he or she suffered or was likely to suffer;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-31-3B-b-ii"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegSubstitution">(ii)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegSubstitution">the current and future needs of the child (including needs arising out of that impact);</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-31-3B-b-iii"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegSubstitution">(iii)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegSubstitution">the way in which the long-term plan for the upbringing of the child would meet those current and future needs.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-31-3C"><span class="LegSubstitution">(3C)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">The Secretary of State may by regulations amend this section for the purpose of altering what for the purposes of subsection (3A) are the permanence provisions of a section 31A plan.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-31-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">An application under this section may be made on its own or in any other family proceedings.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-31-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The court may—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-31-5-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">on an application for a care order, make a supervision order;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-31-5-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">on an application for a supervision order, make a care order.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-31-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where an authorised person proposes to make an application under this section he shall—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-31-6-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">if it is reasonably practicable to do so; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-31-6-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">before making the application,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">consult the local authority appearing to him to be the authority in whose area the child concerned is ordinarily resident.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-31-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">An application made by an authorised person shall not be entertained by the court if, at the time when it is made, the child concerned is—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-31-7-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the subject of an earlier application for a care order, or supervision order, which has not been disposed of; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-31-7-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">subject to—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-31-7-b-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">a care order or supervision order;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-31-7-b-ii"><span class="LegSubstitution">(ii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">a youth rehabilitation order within </span><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegSubstitution">the meaning given by section 173 of the Sentencing Code</span></span><span class="LegSubstitution">; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-31-7-b-iii"><span class="LegSubstitution">(iii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegSubstitution"> a compulsory supervision order or interim compulsory supervision order as defined by sections 83 and 86 of the Children’s Hearings (Scotland) Act </span>  <span class="LegSubstitution"> 2011. </span> </span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-31-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The local authority designated in a care order must be—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-31-8-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the authority within whose area the child is ordinarily resident; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-31-8-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">where the child does not reside in the area of a local authority, the authority within whose area any circumstances arose in consequence of which the order is being made.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-31-9">(9)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In this section—</span> </p><ul class="LegTabbedDef LegUnorderedList"><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-authorised-person">authorised person</span>” means—
</p><div><div class="LegAlphaList"><div class="LegListItem"><div class="LegLevel4No LegListItemNo">(a)</div><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel4">the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children and any of its officers; and
</p></div><div class="LegListItem"><div class="LegLevel4No LegListItemNo">(b)</div><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel4">any person authorised by order of the Secretary of State to bring proceedings under this section and any officer of a body which is so authorised;
</p></div></div></div></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-harm">harm</span>” means ill-treatment or the impairment of health or development <span class="LegAddition">including, for example, impairment suffered from seeing or hearing the ill-treatment of another</span>;
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-development">development</span>” means physical, intellectual, emotional, social or behavioural development;
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-health">health</span>” means physical or mental health; and
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-ill-treatment">ill-treatment</span>” includes sexual abuse and forms of ill-treatment which are not physical.
</p></li></ul><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-31-10">(10)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where the question of whether harm suffered by a child is significant turns on the child’s health or development, his health or development shall be compared with that which could reasonably be expected of a similar child.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-31-11">(11)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In this Act—</span> </p><ul class="LegTabbedDef LegUnorderedList"><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-a-care-order">a care order</span>” means (subject to section 105(1)) an order under subsection (1)(a) and (except where express provision to the contrary is made) includes an interim care order made under section 38; and
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-a-supervision-order">a supervision order</span>” means an order under subsection (1)(b) and (except where express provision to the contrary is made) includes an interim supervision order made under section 38.
</p></li></ul><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section--31A-"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"> <span class="LegAddition"> 31A </span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition"> Care orders: care plans</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-31A-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> Where an application is made on which a care order might be made with respect to a child, the appropriate local authority must, within such time as the court may direct, prepare a plan (“ </span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-a-care-plan"><span class="LegAddition">a care plan</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ”) for the future care of the child. </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-31A-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">While the application is pending, the authority must keep any care plan prepared by them under review and, if they are of the opinion some change is required, revise the plan, or make a new plan, accordingly.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-31A-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A care plan must give any prescribed information and do so in the prescribed manner.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-31A-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">For the purposes of this section, the appropriate local authority, in relation to a child in respect of whom a care order might be made, is the local authority proposed to be designated in the order.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-31A-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">In section 31(3A) and this section, references to a care order do not include an interim care order.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-31A-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> A plan prepared, or treated as prepared, under this section is referred to in this Act as a “ </span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-section-31a-plan"><span class="LegAddition">section 31A plan</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ”. </span> </span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-32"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">32</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Period within which application for order under this Part must be disposed of.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-32-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A court <span class="LegSubstitution">in which an application for an order under this Part is proceeding </span> shall (in the light of any <span class="LegSubstitution">provision in rules of court that is of the kind mentioned in subsection (2)(a) or (b)) </span>—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-32-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">draw up a timetable with a view to <span class="LegSubstitution">disposing of the application—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-32-1-i"><span class="LegSubstitution">(i)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">without delay, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-32-1-ii"><span class="LegSubstitution">(ii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">in any event within twenty-six weeks beginning with the day on which the application was issued; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-32-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">give such directions as it considers appropriate for the purpose of ensuring, so far as is reasonably practicable, that that timetable is adhered to.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-32-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Rules of court may—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-32-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">specify periods within which specified steps must be taken in relation to such proceedings; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-32-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">make other provision with respect to such proceedings for the purpose of ensuring, so far as is reasonably practicable, that they are disposed of without delay.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-32-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A court, when drawing up a timetable under subsection (1)(a), must in particular have regard to—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-32-3-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the impact which the timetable would have on the welfare of the child to whom the application relates; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-32-3-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the impact which the timetable would have on the conduct of the proceedings.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-32-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A court, when revising a timetable drawn up under subsection (1)(a) or when making any decision which may give rise to a need to revise such a timetable (which does not include a decision under subsection (5)), must in particular have regard to—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-32-4-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the impact which any revision would have on the welfare of the child to whom the application relates; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-32-4-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the impact which any revision would have on the duration and conduct of the proceedings.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-32-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A court in which an application under this Part is proceeding may extend the period that is for the time being allowed under subsection (1)(a)(ii) in the case of the application, but may do so only if the court considers that the extension is necessary to enable the court to resolve the proceedings justly.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-32-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">When deciding whether to grant an extension under subsection (5), a court must in particular have regard to—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-32-6-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the impact which any ensuing timetable revision would have on the welfare of the child to whom the application relates, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-32-6-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the impact which any ensuing timetable revision would have on the duration and conduct of the proceedings;</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">and here “</span><span class="LegTerm"><span class="LegAddition">ensuing timetable revision</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” means any revision, of the timetable under subsection (1)(a) for the proceedings, which the court considers may ensue from the extension.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-32-7"><span class="LegAddition">(7)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">When deciding whether to grant an extension under subsection (5), a court is to take account of the following guidance: extensions are not to be granted routinely and are to be seen as requiring specific justification.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-32-8"><span class="LegAddition">(8)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Each separate extension under subsection (5) is to end no more than eight weeks after the later of—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-32-8-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the end of the period being extended; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-32-8-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the end of the day on which the extension is granted.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-32-9"><span class="LegAddition">(9)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The Lord Chancellor may by regulations amend subsection (1)(a)(ii), or the opening words of subsection (8), for the purpose of varying the period for the time being specified in that provision.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-32-10"><span class="LegAddition">(10)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Rules of court may provide that a court—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-32-10-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">when deciding whether to exercise the power under subsection (5), or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-32-10-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">when deciding how to exercise that power,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">must, or may or may not, have regard to matters specified in the rules, or must take account of any guidance set out in the rules.</span> </p><div class="LegClearPblock"/><h3 class="LegPblock"><span class="LegPblockTitle"> Care orders<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-33"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">33</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst"> Effect of care order.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-33-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a care order is made with respect to a child it shall be the duty of the local authority designated by the order to receive the child into their care and to keep him in their care while the order remains in force.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-33-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-33-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">a care order has been made with respect to a child on the application of an authorised person; but</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-33-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the local authority designated by the order was not informed that that person proposed to make the application,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">the child may be kept in the care of that person until received into the care of the authority.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-33-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">While a care order is in force with respect to a child, the local authority designated by the order shall—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-33-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">have parental responsibility for the child; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-33-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">have the power (subject to the following provisions of this section) to determine the extent to which <span class="LegAddition">—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-33-3-b-i"><span class="LegAddition">(i)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">a parent, guardian or special guardian of the child; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-33-3-b-ii"><span class="LegAddition">(ii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">a person who by virtue of section 4A has parental responsibility for the child,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP3Text"> may meet his parental responsibility for him.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-33-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The authority may not exercise the power in subsection (3)(b) unless they are satisfied that it is necessary to do so in order to safeguard or promote the child’s welfare.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-33-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Nothing in subsection (3)(b) shall prevent <span class="LegAddition">a person mentioned in that provision who has care of the child</span> from doing what is reasonable in all the circumstances of the case for the purpose of safeguarding or promoting his welfare.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-33-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">While a care order is in force with respect to a child, the local authority designated by the order shall not—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-33-6-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">cause the child to be brought up in any religious persuasion other than that in which he would have been brought up if the order had not been made; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-33-6-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">have the right—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-33-6-b-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-33-6-b-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">to agree or refuse to agree to the making of an adoption order, or an order under <span class="LegAddition">section 84 of the Adoption and Children Act 2002</span>, with respect to the child; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-33-6-b-iii">(iii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">to appoint a guardian for the child.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-33-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">While a care order is in force with respect to a child, no person may—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-33-7-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">cause the child to be known by a new surname; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-33-7-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">remove him from the United Kingdom,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">without either the written consent of every person who has parental responsibility for the child or the leave of the court.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-33-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Subsection (7)(b) does not—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-33-8-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">prevent the removal of such a child, for a period of less than one month, by the authority in whose care he is; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-33-8-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">apply to arrangements for such a child to live outside England and Wales (which are governed by paragraph 19 of Schedule 2 <span class="LegAddition">in England, and section 124 of the Social Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014 in Wales</span>).</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-33-9">(9)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The power in subsection (3)(b) is subject (in addition to being subject to the provisions of this section) to any right, duty, power, responsibility or authority which <span class="LegAddition">a person mentioned in that provision</span> has in relation to the child and his property by virtue of any other enactment.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-34"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">34</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Parental contact etc. with children in care.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-34-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a child is in the care of a local authority, the authority shall (subject to the provisions of this section) <span class="LegAddition">and their duty under section 22(3)(a)</span> <span class="LegAddition">or, where the local authority is in Wales, under section 78(1)(a) of the Social Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014</span> allow the child reasonable contact with—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-34-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">his parents;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-34-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any guardian <span class="LegAddition">or special guardian</span> of his;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-34-1-ba"><span class="LegAddition">(ba)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any person who by virtue of section 4A has parental responsibility for him;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-34-1-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">where there was a <span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements</span> order in force with respect to the child immediately before the care order was made, <span class="LegSubstitution">any person named in the child arrangements order as a person with whom the child was to live </span>; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-34-1-d">(d)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">where, immediately before the care order was made, a person had care of the child by virtue of an order made in the exercise of the High Court’s inherent jurisdiction with respect to children, that person.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-34-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">On an application made by the authority or the child, the court may make such order as it considers appropriate with respect to the contact which is to be allowed between the child and any named person.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-34-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">On an application made by—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-34-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any person mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (d) of subsection (1); or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-34-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any person who has obtained the leave of the court to make the application,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">the court may make such order as it considers appropriate with respect to the contact which is to be allowed between the child and that person.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-34-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">On an application made by the authority or the child, the court may make an order authorising the authority to refuse to allow contact between the child and any person who is mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (d) of subsection (1) and named in the order.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-34-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">When making a care order with respect to a child, or in any family proceedings in connection with a child who is in the care of a local authority, the court may make an order under this section, even though no application for such an order has been made with respect to the child, if it considers that the order should be made.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-34-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">An authority may refuse to allow the contact that would otherwise be required by virtue of subsection (1) or an order under this section if—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-34-6-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">they are satisfied that it is necessary to do so in order to safeguard or promote the child’s welfare; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-34-6-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the refusal—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-34-6-b-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">is decided upon as a matter of urgency; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-34-6-b-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">does not last for more than seven days.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-34-6A"><span class="LegAddition">(6A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where (by virtue of an order under this section, or because subsection (6) applies) a local authority in England are authorised to refuse to allow contact between the child and a person mentioned in any of paragraphs (a) to (c) of paragraph 15(1) of Schedule 2, paragraph 15(1) of that Schedule does not require the authority to endeavour to promote contact between the child and that person.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-34-6B"><span class="LegAddition">(6B)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where (by virtue of an order under this section, or because subsection (6) applies) a local authority in Wales is authorised to refuse contact between the child and a person mentioned in any of paragraphs (a) to (c) of section 95(1) of the Social Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014, section 95(1) of that Act does not require the authority to promote contact between the child and that person.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-34-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">An order under this section may impose such conditions as the court considers appropriate.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-34-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision as to—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-34-8-za"><span class="LegAddition">(za)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">what a local authority in England must have regard to in considering whether contact between a child and a person mentioned in any of paragraphs (a) to (d) of subsection (1) is consistent with safeguarding and promoting the child's welfare;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-34-8-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the steps to be taken by a local authority who have exercised their powers under subsection (6);</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-34-8-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the circumstances in which, and conditions subject to which, the terms of any order under this section may be departed from by agreement between the local authority and the person in relation to whom the order is made;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-34-8-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">notification by a local authority of any variation or suspension of arrangements made (otherwise than under an order under this section) with a view to affording any person contact with a child to whom this section applies.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-34-9">(9)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The court may vary or discharge any order made under this section on the application of the authority, the child concerned or the person named in the order.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-34-10">(10)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">An order under this section may be made either at the same time as the care order itself or later.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-34-11">(11)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Before <span class="LegAddition">making, varying or discharging an order under this section or</span> making a care order with respect to any child the court shall—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-34-11-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">consider the arrangements which the authority have made, or propose to make, for affording any person contact with a child to whom this section applies; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-34-11-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">invite the parties to the proceedings to comment on those arrangements.</span> </p><div class="LegClearPblock"/><h3 class="LegPblock"><span class="LegPblockTitle">Supervision orders<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-35"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">35</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst">Supervision orders.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-35-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">While a supervision order is in force it shall be the duty of the supervisor—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-35-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">to advise, assist and befriend the supervised child;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-35-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">to take such steps as are reasonably necessary to give effect to the order; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-35-1-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">where—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-35-1-c-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">the order is not wholly complied with; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-35-1-c-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">the supervisor considers that the order may no longer be necessary,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP3Text">to consider whether or not to apply to the court for its variation or discharge.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-35-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Parts I and II of Schedule 3 make further provision with respect to supervision orders.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-36"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">36</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Education supervision orders.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-36-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">On the application of any <span class="LegSubstitution">local authority</span>, the court may make an order putting the child with respect to whom the application is made under the supervision of a designated <span class="LegSubstitution">local authority</span>.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-36-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In this Act “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-an-education-supervision-order">an education supervision order</span>” means an order under subsection (1).</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-36-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A court may only make an education supervision order if it is satisfied that the child concerned is of compulsory school age and is not being properly educated.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-36-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">For the purposes of this section, a child is being properly educated only if he is receiving efficient full-time education suitable to his age, ability and aptitude and any special educational needs he may have.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-36-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a child is—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-36-5-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the subject of a school attendance order which is in force under <span class="LegAddition">section 437 of the Education Act 1996</span> and which has not been complied with; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-36-5-b"><span class="LegSubstitution">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">is not attending regularly within the meaning of section 444 of that Act—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-36-5-b-i"><span class="LegSubstitution">(i)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">a school at which he is a registered pupil,</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-36-5-b-ii"><span class="LegSubstitution">(ii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">any place at which education is provided for him in the circumstances mentioned in subsection (1) </span><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegAddition">or (1A)</span></span><span class="LegSubstitution"> of section 444ZA of that Act, or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-36-5-b-iii"><span class="LegSubstitution">(iii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">any place which he is required to attend in the circumstances mentioned in subsection </span><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegAddition">(1B) or</span></span><span class="LegSubstitution"> (2) of that section,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">then, unless it is proved that he is being properly educated, it shall be assumed that he is not.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-36-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">An education supervision order may not be made with respect to a child who is in the care of a local authority.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-36-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The <span class="LegSubstitution">local authority</span> designated in an education supervision order must be—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-36-7-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the authority within whose area the child concerned is living or will live; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-36-7-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">where—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-36-7-b-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">the child is a registered pupil at a school; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-36-7-b-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">the authority mentioned in paragraph (a) and the authority within whose area the school is situated agree,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP3Text">the latter authority.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-36-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a <span class="LegSubstitution">local authority</span> propose to make an application for an education supervision order they shall, before making the application, consult the . . . appropriate local authority <span class="LegAddition">if different</span>.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-36-9">(9)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The appropriate local authority is—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-36-9-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">in the case of a child who is being provided with accommodation by, or on behalf of, a local authority, that authority; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-36-9-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">in any other case, the local authority within whose area the child concerned lives, or will live.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-36-10">(10)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Part III of Schedule 3 makes further provision with respect to education supervision orders.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-36-11"><span class="LegAddition">(11)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where, for the purposes of the Additional Learning Needs and Education Tribunal (Wales) Act 2018, a local authority in Wales is responsible for a child or a child is looked after by a local authority in Wales, the reference to special educational needs in subsection (4) is to be interpreted as a reference to additional learning needs (which has the same meaning as in that Act).</span></span> </p><div class="LegClearPblock"/><h3 class="LegPblock"><span class="LegPblockTitle"> Powers of court<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-37"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">37</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst"> Powers of court in certain family proceedings.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-37-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where, in any family proceedings in which a question arises with respect to the welfare of any child, it appears to the court that it may be appropriate for a care or supervision order to be made with respect to him, the court may direct the appropriate authority to undertake an investigation of the child’s circumstances.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-37-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where the court gives a direction under this section the local authority concerned shall, when undertaking the investigation, consider whether they should—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-37-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">apply for a care order or for a supervision order with respect to the child;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-37-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">provide services or assistance for the child or his family; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-37-2-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">take any other action with respect to the child.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-37-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a local authority undertake an investigation under this section, and decide not to apply for a care order or supervision order with respect to the child concerned, they shall inform the court of—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-37-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">their reasons for so deciding;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-37-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any service or assistance which they have provided, or intend to provide, for the child and his family; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-37-3-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any other action which they have taken, or propose to take, with respect to the child.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-37-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The information shall be given to the court before the end of the period of eight weeks beginning with the date of the direction, unless the court otherwise directs.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-37-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The local authority named in a direction under subsection (1) must be—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-37-5-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the authority in whose area the child is ordinarily resident; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-37-5-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">where the child <span class="LegAddition">is not ordinarily resident</span> in the area of a local authority, the authority within whose area any circumstances arose in consequence of which the direction is being given.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-37-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">If, on the conclusion of any investigation or review under this section, the authority decide not to apply for a care order or supervision order with respect to the child—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-37-6-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">they shall consider whether it would be appropriate to review the case at a later date; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-37-6-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">if they decide that it would be, they shall determine the date on which that review is to begin.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-38"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">38</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Interim orders.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-38-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-38-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">in any proceedings on an application for a care order or supervision order, the proceedings are adjourned; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-38-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the court gives a direction under section 37(1),</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">the court may make an interim care order or an interim supervision order with respect to the child concerned.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-38-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A court shall not make an interim care order or interim supervision order under this section unless it is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the circumstances with respect to the child are as mentioned in section 31(2).</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-38-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where, in any proceedings on an application for a care order or supervision order, a court makes a <span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order with respect to the living arrangements of</span> the child concerned, it shall also make an interim supervision order with respect to him unless satisfied that his welfare will be satisfactorily safeguarded without an interim order being made.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-38-3A"><span class="LegAddition">(3A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">For the purposes of subsection (3), a child arrangements order is one made with respect to the living arrangements of the child concerned if the arrangements regulated by the order consist of, or include, arrangements which relate to either or both of the following—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-38-3A-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">with whom the child is to live, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-38-3A-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">when the child is to live with any person.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-38-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">An interim order made under or by virtue of this section shall have effect for such period as may be specified in the order, but shall in any event cease to have effect on whichever of the following events first occurs—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-38-4-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-38-4-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-38-4-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">in a case which falls within subsection (1)(a), the disposal of the application;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-38-4-d">(d)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">in a case which falls within subsection (1)(b), the disposal of an application for a care order or supervision order made by the authority with respect to the child;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-38-4-da"><span class="LegAddition">(da)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in a case which falls within subsection (1)(b) and in which—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-38-4-da-i"><span class="LegAddition">(i)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">no direction has been given under section 37(4), and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-38-4-da-ii"><span class="LegAddition">(ii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">no application for a care order or supervision order has been made with respect to the child,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the expiry of the period of eight weeks beginning with the date on which the order is made;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-38-4-e">(e)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">in a case which falls within subsection (1)(b) and in which—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-38-4-e-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">the court has given a direction under section 37(4), but</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-38-4-e-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">no application for a care order or supervision order has been made with respect to the child,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP3Text">the expiry of the period fixed by that direction.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-38-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-38-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where the court makes an interim care order, or interim supervision order, it may give such directions (if any) as it considers appropriate with regard to the medical or psychiatric examination or other assessment of the child; but if the child is of sufficient understanding to make an informed decision he may refuse to submit to the examination or other assessment.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-38-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A direction under subsection (6) may be to the effect that there is to be—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-38-7-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">no such examination or assessment; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-38-7-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">no such examination or assessment unless the court directs otherwise.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-38-7A"><span class="LegAddition">(7A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A direction under subsection (6) to the effect that there is to be a medical or psychiatric examination or other assessment of the child may be given only if the court is of the opinion that the examination or other assessment is necessary to assist the court to resolve the proceedings justly.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-38-7B"><span class="LegAddition">(7B)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">When deciding whether to give a direction under subsection (6) to that effect the court is to have regard in particular to—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-38-7B-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any impact which any examination or other assessment would be likely to have on the welfare of the child, and any other impact which giving the direction would be likely to have on the welfare of the child,</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-38-7B-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the issues with which the examination or other assessment would assist the court,</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-38-7B-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the questions which the examination or other assessment would enable the court to answer,</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-38-7B-d"><span class="LegAddition">(d)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the evidence otherwise available,</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-38-7B-e"><span class="LegAddition">(e)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the impact which the direction would be likely to have on the timetable, duration and conduct of the proceedings,</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-38-7B-f"><span class="LegAddition">(f)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the cost of the examination or other assessment, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-38-7B-g"><span class="LegAddition">(g)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any matters prescribed by Family Procedure Rules.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-38-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A direction under subsection (6) may be—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-38-8-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">given when the interim order is made or at any time while it is in force; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-38-8-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">varied at any time on the application of any person falling within any class of person prescribed by rules of court for the purposes of this subsection.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-38-9">(9)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Paragraphs 4 and 5 of Schedule 3 shall not apply in relation to an interim supervision order.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-38-10">(10)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a court makes an order under or by virtue of this section it shall, in determining the period for which the order is to be in force, consider whether any party who was, or might have been, opposed to the making of the order was in a position to argue his case against the order in full.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-38A"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">38A</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> <span class="LegAddition">Power to include exclusion requirement in interim care order.</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-38A-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-38A-1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">on being satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the circumstances with respect to a child are as mentioned in section 31(2)(a) and (b)(i), the court makes an interim care order with respect to a child, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-38A-1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the conditions mentioned in subsection (2) are satisfied,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">the court may include an exclusion requirement in the interim care order.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-38A-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The conditions are—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-38A-2-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">that there is reasonable cause to believe that, if a person (“the relevant person”) is excluded from a dwelling-house in which the child lives, the child will cease to suffer, or cease to be likely to suffer, significant harm, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-38A-2-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">that another person living in the dwelling-house (whether a parent of the child or some other person)—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-38A-2-b-i"><span class="LegAddition">(i)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">is able and willing to give to the child the care which it would be reasonable to expect a parent to give him, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-38A-2-b-ii"><span class="LegAddition">(ii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">consents to the inclusion of the exclusion requirement.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-38A-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">For the purposes of this section an exclusion requirement is any one or more of the following—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-38A-3-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a provision requiring the relevant person to leave a dwelling-house in which he is living with the child,</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-38A-3-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a provision prohibiting the relevant person from entering a dwelling-house in which the child lives, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-38A-3-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a provision excluding the relevant person from a defined area in which a dwelling-house in which the child lives is situated.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-38A-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The court may provide that the exclusion requirement is to have effect for a shorter period than the other provisions of the interim care order.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-38A-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where the court makes an interim care order containing an exclusion requirement, the court may attach a power of arrest to the exclusion requirement.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-38A-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where the court attaches a power of arrest to an exclusion requirement of an interim care order, it may provide that the power of arrest is to have effect for a shorter period than the exclusion requirement.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-38A-7"><span class="LegAddition">(7)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Any period specified for the purposes of subsection (4) or (6) may be extended by the court (on one or more occasions) on an application to vary or discharge the interim care order.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-38A-8"><span class="LegAddition">(8)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where a power of arrest is attached to an exclusion requirement of an interim care order by virtue of subsection (5), a constable may arrest without warrant any person whom he has reasonable cause to believe to be in breach of the requirement.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-38A-9"><span class="LegAddition">(9)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Sections 47(7), (11) and (12) and 48 of, and Schedule 5 to, the Family Law Act 1996 shall have effect in relation to a person arrested under subsection (8) of this section as they have effect in relation to a person arrested under section 47(6) of that Act.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-38A-10"><span class="LegAddition">(10)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">If, while an interim care order containing an exclusion requirement is in force, the local authority have removed the child from the dwelling-house from which the relevant person is excluded to other accommodation for a continuous period of more than 24 hours, the interim care order shall cease to have effect in so far as it imposes the exclusion requirement.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-38B"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">38B</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Undertakings relating to interim care orders.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-38B-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In any case where the court has power to include an exclusion requirement in an interim care order, the court may accept an undertaking from the relevant person.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-38B-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">No power of arrest may be attached to any undertaking given under subsection (1).</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-38B-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">An undertaking given to a court under subsection (1)—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-38B-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">shall be enforceable as if it were an order of the court, and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-38B-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">shall cease to have effect if, while it is in force, the local authority have removed the child from the dwelling-house from which the relevant person is excluded to other accommodation for a continuous period of more than 24 hours.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-38B-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">This section has effect without prejudice to the powers of the High Court and <span class="LegSubstitution">family court </span> apart from this section.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-38B-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In this section “exclusion requirement” and “relevant person” have the same meaning as in section 38A.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-39"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">39</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Discharge and variation etc. of care orders and supervision orders.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-39-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A care order may be discharged by the court on the application of—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-39-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any person who has parental responsibility for the child;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-39-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the child himself; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-39-1-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the local authority designated by the order.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-39-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A supervision order may be varied or discharged by the court on the application of—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-39-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any person who has parental responsibility for the child;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-39-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the child himself; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-39-2-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the supervisor.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-39-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">On the application of a person who is not entitled to apply for the order to be discharged, but who is a person with whom the child is living, a supervision order may be varied by the court in so far as it imposes a requirement which affects that person.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-39-3A"><span class="LegAddition">(3A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">On the application of a person who is not entitled to apply for the order to be discharged, but who is a person to whom an exclusion requirement contained in the order applies, an interim care order may be varied or discharged by the court in so far as it imposes the exclusion requirement.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-39-3B"><span class="LegAddition">(3B)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where a power of arrest has been attached to an exclusion requirement of an interim care order, the court may, on the application of any person entitled to apply for the discharge of the order so far as it imposes the exclusion requirement, vary or discharge the order in so far as it confers a power of arrest (whether or not any application has been made to vary or discharge any other provision of the order).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-39-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a care order is in force with respect to a child the court may, on the application of any person entitled to apply for the order to be discharged, substitute a supervision order for the care order.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-39-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">When a court is considering whether to substitute one order for another under subsection (4) any provision of this Act which would otherwise require section 31(2) to be satisfied at the time when the proposed order is substituted or made shall be disregarded.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-40"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">40</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Orders pending appeals in cases about care or supervision orders.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-40-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-40-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">a court dismisses an application for a care order; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-40-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">at the time when the court dismisses the application, the child concerned is the subject of an interim care order,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">the court may make a care order with respect to the child to have effect subject to such directions (if any) as the court may see fit to include in the order.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-40-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-40-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">a court dismisses an application for a care order, or an application for a supervision order; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-40-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">at the time when the court dismisses the application, the child concerned is the subject of an interim supervision order,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">the court may make a supervision order with respect to the child to have effect subject to such directions (if any) as the court may see fit to include in the order.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-40-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a court grants an application to discharge a care order or supervision order, it may order that—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-40-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">its decision is not to have effect; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-40-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the care order, or supervision order, is to continue to have effect but subject to such directions as the court sees fit to include in the order.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-40-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">An order made under this section shall only have effect for such period, not exceeding the appeal period, as may be specified in the order.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-40-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-40-5-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">an appeal is made against any decision of a court under this section; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-40-5-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any application is made to the appellate court in connection with a proposed appeal against that decision,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">the appellate court may extend the period for which the order in question is to have effect, but not so as to extend it beyond the end of the appeal period.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-40-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In this section “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-the-appeal-period">the appeal period</span>” means—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-40-6-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">where an appeal is made against the decision in question, the period between the making of that decision and the determination of the appeal; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-40-6-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">otherwise, the period during which an appeal may be made against the decision.</span> </p><div class="LegClearPblock"/><h3 class="LegPblock"><span class="LegPblockTitle"> Guardians ad litem<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-41"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">41</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst"><span class="LegAddition">Representation of child</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-41-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">or the purpose of any specified proceedings, the court shall appoint <span class="LegAddition">an officer of the Service</span><span class="LegAddition">or a Welsh family proceedings officer</span> for the child concerned unless satisfied that it is not necessary to do so in order to safeguard his interests.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-41-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The <span class="LegAddition">officer of the Service</span><span class="LegAddition">or Welsh family proceedings officer</span> shall—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-41-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">be appointed in accordance with rules of court; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-41-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">be under a duty to safeguard the interests of the child in the manner prescribed by such rules.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-41-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-41-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the child concerned is not represented by a solicitor; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-41-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any of the conditions mentioned in subsection (4) is satisfied,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">the court may appoint a solicitor to represent him.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-41-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The conditions are that—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-41-4-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">no <span class="LegAddition">officer of the Service</span><span class="LegAddition">or Welsh family proceedings officer</span> has been appointed for the child;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-41-4-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the child has sufficient understanding to instruct a solicitor and wishes to do so;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-41-4-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">it appears to the court that it would be in the child’s best interests for him to be represented by a solicitor.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-41-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any solicitor appointed under or by virtue of this section shall be appointed, and shall represent the child, in accordance with rules of court.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-41-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In this section “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-specified-proceedings">specified proceedings</span>” means any proceedings—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-41-6-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">on an application for a care order or supervision order;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-41-6-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">in which the court has given a direction under section 37(1) and has made, or is considering whether to make, an interim care order;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-41-6-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">on an application for the discharge of a care order or the variation or discharge of a supervision order;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-41-6-d">(d)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">on an application under section 39(4);</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-41-6-e">(e)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">in which the court is considering whether to make a <span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order with respect to the living arrangements of</span> a child who is the subject of a care order;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-41-6-f">(f)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">with respect to contact between a child who is the subject of a care order and any other person;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-41-6-g">(g)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">under Part V;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-41-6-h">(h)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">on an appeal against—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-41-6-h-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">the making of, or refusal to make, a care order, supervision order or any order under section 34;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-41-6-h-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">the making of, or refusal to make, a <span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order with respect to the living arrangements of</span> a child who is the subject of a care order; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-41-6-h-iii">(iii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">the variation or discharge, or refusal of an application to vary or discharge, an order of a kind mentioned in sub-paragraph (i) or (ii);</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-41-6-h-iv">(iv)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">the refusal of an application under section 39(4); or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-41-6-h-v">(v)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">the making of, or refusal to make, an order under Part V; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-41-6-hh"><span class="LegAddition">(hh)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">on an application for the making or revocation of a placement order (within the meaning of section 21 of the Adoption and Children Act 2002);</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-41-6-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">which are specified for the time being, for the purposes of this section, by rules of court.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-41-6A"><span class="LegAddition">(6A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The proceedings which may be specified under subsection (6)(i) include (for example) proceedings for the making, varying or discharging of a section 8 order.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-41-6B"><span class="LegAddition">(6B)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">For the purposes of subsection (6), a child arrangements order is one made with respect to the living arrangements of a child if the arrangements regulated by the order consist of, or include, arrangements which relate to either or both of the following—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-41-6B-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">with whom the child is to live, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-41-6B-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">when the child is to live with any person.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-41-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-41-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-41-9">(9)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-41-10">(10)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Rules of court may make provision as to—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-41-10-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the assistance which any <span class="LegAddition">officer of the Service</span><span class="LegAddition">or Welsh family proceedings officer</span> may be required by the court to give to it;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-41-10-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the consideration to be given by any <span class="LegAddition">officer of the Service</span><span class="LegAddition">or Welsh family proceedings officer</span> , where an order of a specified kind has been made in the proceedings in question, as to whether to apply for the variation or discharge of the order;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-41-10-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the participation of <span class="LegAddition">officers of the Service</span><span class="LegAddition">or Welsh family proceedings officers</span> in reviews, of a kind specified in the rules, which are conducted by the court.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-41-11">(11)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Regardless of any enactment or rule of law which would otherwise prevent it from doing so, the court may take account of—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-41-11-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any statement contained in a report made by <span class="LegAddition">an officer of the Service</span><span class="LegAddition">or a Welsh family proceedings officer</span> who is appointed under this section for the purpose of the proceedings in question; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-41-11-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any evidence given in respect of the matters referred to in the report,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">in so far as the statement or evidence is, in the opinion of the court, relevant to the question which the court is considering.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-41-12">(12)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-42"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">42</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Right of officer of the Service to have access to local authority records</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-42-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where <span class="LegAddition">an officer of the Service</span><span class="LegAddition">or Welsh family proceedings officer</span> has been appointed <span class="LegAddition">under section 41</span> he shall have the right at all reasonable times to examine and take copies of—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-42-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any records of, or held by, a local authority <span class="LegAddition">or an authorised person</span>which were compiled in connection with the making, or proposed making, by any person of any application under this Act with respect to the child concerned; . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-42-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any . . . records of, or held by, a local authority which were compiled in connection with any functions which <span class="LegAddition">are social services functions within the meaning of</span> the Local Authority Social Services Act 1970 <span class="LegAddition">or for the purposes of the Social Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014</span>, so far as those records relate to that child.</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-42-1-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any records of, or held by, an authorised person which were compiled in connection with the activities of that person, so far as those records relate to that child.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-42-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where <span class="LegAddition">an officer of the Service</span><span class="LegAddition">or Welsh family proceedings officer</span> takes a copy of any record which he is entitled to examine under this section, that copy or any part of it shall be admissible as evidence of any matter referred to in any—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-42-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">report which he makes to the court in the proceedings in question; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-42-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">evidence which he gives in those proceedings.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-42-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Subsection (2) has effect regardless of any enactment or rule of law which would otherwise prevent the record in question being admissible in evidence.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-42-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> In this section “ </span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-authorised-person"><span class="LegAddition">authorised person</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ” has the same meaning as in section 31. </span> </span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="part-V"/><div class="LegClearPart"/><h2 class="LegPart"><span class="LegPartNo">Part V<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to "><span class="btr"/>U.K.<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span><span class="LegPartTitle"> Protection of Children</span></h2><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-43"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">43</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst"> Child assessment orders.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-43-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">On the application of a local authority or authorised person for an order to be made under this section with respect to a child, the court may make the order if, but only if, it is satisfied that—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-43-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the applicant has reasonable cause to suspect that the child is suffering, or is likely to suffer, significant harm;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-43-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">an assessment of the state of the child’s health or development, or of the way in which he has been treated, is required to enable the applicant to determine whether or not the child is suffering, or is likely to suffer, significant harm; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-43-1-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">it is unlikely that such an assessment will be made, or be satisfactory, in the absence of an order under this section.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-43-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In this Act “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-a-child-assessment-order">a child assessment order</span>” means an order under this section.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-43-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A court may treat an application under this section as an application for an emergency protection order.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-43-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">No court shall make a child assessment order if it is satisfied—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-43-4-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">that there are grounds for making an emergency protection order with respect to the child; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-43-4-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">that it ought to make such an order rather than a child assessment order.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-43-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A child assessment order shall—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-43-5-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">specify the date by which the assessment is to begin; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-43-5-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">have effect for such period, not exceeding 7 days beginning with that date, as may be specified in the order.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-43-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a child assessment order is in force with respect to a child it shall be the duty of any person who is in a position to produce the child—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-43-6-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">to produce him to such person as may be named in the order; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-43-6-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">to comply with such directions relating to the assessment of the child as the court thinks fit to specify in the order.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-43-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A child assessment order authorises any person carrying out the assessment, or any part of the assessment, to do so in accordance with the terms of the order.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-43-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Regardless of subsection (7), if the child is of sufficient understanding to make an informed decision he may refuse to submit to a medical or psychiatric examination or other assessment.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-43-9">(9)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The child may only be kept away from home—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-43-9-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">in accordance with directions specified in the order;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-43-9-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">if it is necessary for the purposes of the assessment; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-43-9-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">for such period or periods as may be specified in the order.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-43-10">(10)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where the child is to be kept away from home, the order shall contain such directions as the court thinks fit with regard to the contact that he must be allowed to have with other persons while away from home.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-43-11">(11)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any person making an application for a child assessment order shall take such steps as are reasonably practicable to ensure that notice of the application is given to—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-43-11-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the child’s parents;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-43-11-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any person who is not a parent of his but who has parental responsibility for him;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-43-11-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any other person caring for the child;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-43-11-d"><span class="LegSubstitution">(d)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">any person named in a child arrangements order as a person with whom the child is to spend time or otherwise have contact;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-43-11-e">(e)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any person who is allowed to have contact with the child by virtue of an order under section 34; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-43-11-f">(f)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the child,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">before the hearing of the application.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-43-12">(12)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Rules of court may make provision as to the circumstances in which—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-43-12-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any of the persons mentioned in subsection (11); or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-43-12-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">such other person as may be specified in the rules,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">may apply to the court for a child assessment order to be varied or discharged.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-43-13">(13)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In this section “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-authorised-person">authorised person</span>” means a person who is an authorised person for the purposes of section 31.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-44"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">44</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Orders for emergency protection of children.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-44-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where any person (“the applicant”) applies to the court for an order to be made under this section with respect to a child, the court may make the order if, but only if, it is satisfied that—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">there is reasonable cause to believe that the child is likely to suffer significant harm if—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-44-1-a-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">he is not removed to accommodation provided by or on behalf of the applicant; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-44-1-a-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">he does not remain in the place in which he is then being accommodated;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">in the case of an application made by a local authority—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-44-1-b-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">enquiries are being made with respect to the child under section 47(1)(b); and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-44-1-b-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">those enquiries are being frustrated by access to the child being unreasonably refused to a person authorised to seek access and that the applicant has reasonable cause to believe that access to the child is required as a matter of urgency; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44-1-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">in the case of an application made by an authorised person—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-44-1-c-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">the applicant has reasonable cause to suspect that a child is suffering, or is likely to suffer, significant harm;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-44-1-c-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">the applicant is making enquiries with respect to the child’s welfare; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-44-1-c-iii">(iii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">those enquiries are being frustrated by access to the child being unreasonably refused to a person authorised to seek access and the applicant has reasonable cause to believe that access to the child is required as a matter of urgency.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-44-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In this section—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-authorised-person">authorised person</span>” means a person who is an authorised person for the purposes of section 31; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-a-person-authorised-to-seek-access">a person authorised to seek access</span>” means—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-44-2-b-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">in the case of an application by a local authority, an officer of the local authority or a person authorised by the authority to act on their behalf in connection with the enquiries; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-44-2-b-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">in the case of an application by an authorised person, that person.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-44-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any person—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">seeking access to a child in connection with enquiries of a kind mentioned in subsection (1); and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">purporting to be a person authorised to do so,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">shall, on being asked to do so, produce some duly authenticated document as evidence that he is such a person.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-44-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">While an order under this section (“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-an-emergency-protection-order">an emergency protection order</span>”) is in force it—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44-4-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">operates as a direction to any person who is in a position to do so to comply with any request to produce the child to the applicant;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44-4-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">authorises—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-44-4-b-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">the removal of the child at any time to accommodation provided by or on behalf of the applicant and his being kept there; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-44-4-b-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">the prevention of the child’s removal from any hospital, or other place, in which he was being accommodated immediately before the making of the order; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44-4-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">gives the applicant parental responsibility for the child.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-44-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where an emergency protection order is in force with respect to a child, the applicant—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44-5-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">shall only exercise the power given by virtue of subsection (4)(b) in order to safeguard the welfare of the child;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44-5-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">shall take, and shall only take, such action in meeting his parental responsibility for the child as is reasonably required to safeguard or promote the welfare of the child (having regard in particular to the duration of the order); and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44-5-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">shall comply with the requirements of any regulations made by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this subsection.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-44-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where the court makes an emergency protection order, it may give such directions (if any) as it considers appropriate with respect to—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44-6-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the contact which is, or is not, to be allowed between the child and any named person;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44-6-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the medical or psychiatric examination or other assessment of the child.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-44-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where any direction is given under subsection (6)(b), the child may, if he is of sufficient understanding to make an informed decision, refuse to submit to the examination or other assessment.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-44-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A direction under subsection (6)(a) may impose conditions and one under subsection (6)(b) may be to the effect that there is to be—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44-8-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">no such examination or assessment; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44-8-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">no such examination or assessment unless the court directs otherwise.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-44-9">(9)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A direction under subsection (6) may be—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44-9-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">given when the emergency protection order is made or at any time while it is in force; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44-9-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">varied at any time on the application of any person falling within any class of person prescribed by rules of court for the purposes of this subsection.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-44-10">(10)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where an emergency protection order is in force with respect to a child and—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44-10-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the applicant has exercised the power given by subsection (4)(b)(i) but it appears to him that it is safe for the child to be returned; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44-10-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the applicant has exercised the power given by subsection (4)(b)(ii) but it appears to him that it is safe for the child to be allowed to be removed from the place in question,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">he shall return the child or (as the case may be) allow him to be removed.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-44-11">(11)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where he is required by subsection (10) to return the child the applicant shall—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44-11-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">return him to the care of the person from whose care he was removed; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44-11-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">if that is not reasonably practicable, return him to the care of—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-44-11-b-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">a parent of his;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-44-11-b-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">any person who is not a parent of his but who has parental responsibility for him; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-44-11-b-iii">(iii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">such other person as the applicant (with the agreement of the court) considers appropriate.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-44-12">(12)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where the applicant has been required by subsection (10) to return the child, or to allow him to be removed, he may again exercise his powers with respect to the child (at any time while the emergency protection order remains in force) if it appears to him that a change in the circumstances of the case makes it necessary for him to do so.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-44-13">(13)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where an emergency protection order has been made with respect to a child, the applicant shall, subject to any direction given under subsection (6), allow the child reasonable contact with—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44-13-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">his parents;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44-13-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any person who is not a parent of his but who has parental responsibility for him;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44-13-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any person with whom he was living immediately before the making of the order;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44-13-d"><span class="LegSubstitution">(d)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">any person named in a child arrangements order as a person with whom the child is to spend time or otherwise have contact;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44-13-e">(e)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any person who is allowed to have contact with the child by virtue of an order under section 34; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44-13-f">(f)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any person acting on behalf of any of those persons.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-44-14">(14)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Wherever it is reasonably practicable to do so, an emergency protection order shall name the child; and where it does not name him it shall describe him as clearly as possible.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-44-15">(15)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"> A person shall be guilty of an offence if he intentionally obstructs any person exercising the power under subsection (4)(b) to remove, or prevent the removal of, a child.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-44-16">(16)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A person guilty of an offence under subsection (15) shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-44A"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">44A</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> <span class="LegAddition">Power to include exclusion requirement in emergency protection order.</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-44A-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44A-1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">on being satisfied as mentioned in section 44(1)(a), (b) or (c), the court makes an emergency protection order with respect to a child, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44A-1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the conditions mentioned in subsection (2) are satisfied,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">the court may include an exclusion requirement in the emergency protection order.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-44A-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The conditions are—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44A-2-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">that there is reasonable cause to believe that, if a person (“the relevant person”) is excluded from a dwelling-house in which the child lives, then—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-44A-2-a-i"><span class="LegAddition">(i)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">in the case of an order made on the ground mentioned in section 44(1)(a), the child will not be likely to suffer significant harm, even though the child is not removed as mentioned in section 44(1)(a)(i) or does not remain as mentioned in section 44(1)(a)(ii), or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-44A-2-a-ii"><span class="LegAddition">(ii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">in the case of an order made on the ground mentioned in paragraph (b) or (c) of section 44(1), the enquiries referred to in that paragraph will cease to be frustrated, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44A-2-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">that another person living in the dwelling-house (whether a parent of the child or some other person)—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-44A-2-b-i"><span class="LegAddition">(i)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">is able and willing to give to the child the care which it would be reasonable to expect a parent to give him, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-44A-2-b-ii"><span class="LegAddition">(ii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">consents to the inclusion of the exclusion requirement.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-44A-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">For the purposes of this section an exclusion requirement is any one or more of the following—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44A-3-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a provision requiring the relevant person to leave a dwelling-house in which he is living with the child,</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44A-3-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a provision prohibiting the relevant person from entering a dwelling-house in which the child lives, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44A-3-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a provision excluding the relevant person from a defined area in which a dwelling-house in which the child lives is situated.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-44A-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The court may provide that the exclusion requirement is to have effect for a shorter period than the other provisions of the order.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-44A-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where the court makes an emergency protection order containing an exclusion requirement, the court may attach a power of arrest to the exclusion requirement.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-44A-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where the court attaches a power of arrest to an exclusion requirement of an emergency protection order, it may provide that the power of arrest is to have effect for a shorter period than the exclusion requirement.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-44A-7"><span class="LegAddition">(7)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Any period specified for the purposes of subsection (4) or (6) may be extended by the court (on one or more occasions) on an application to vary or discharge the emergency protection order.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-44A-8"><span class="LegAddition">(8)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where a power of arrest is attached to an exclusion requirement of an emergency protection order by virtue of subsection (5), a constable may arrest without warrant any person whom he has reasonable cause to believe to be in breach of the requirement.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-44A-9"><span class="LegAddition">(9)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Sections 47(7), (11) and (12) and 48 of, and Schedule 5 to, the Family Law Act 1996 shall have effect in relation to a person arrested under subsection (8) of this section as they have effect in relation to a person arrested under section 47(6) of that Act.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-44A-10"><span class="LegAddition">(10)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">If, while an emergency protection order containing an exclusion requirement is in force, the applicant has removed the child from the dwelling-house from which the relevant person is excluded to other accommodation for a continuous period of more than 24 hours, the order shall cease to have effect in so far as it imposes the exclusion requirement.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-44B"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">44B</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Undertakings relating to emergency protection orders.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-44B-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In any case where the court has power to include an exclusion requirement in an emergency protection order, the court may accept an undertaking from the relevant person.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-44B-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">No power of arrest may be attached to any undertaking given under subsection (1).</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-44B-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">An undertaking given to a court under subsection (1)—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44B-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">shall be enforceable as if it were an order of the court, and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-44B-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">shall cease to have effect if, while it is in force, the applicant has removed the child from the dwelling-house from which the relevant person is excluded to other accommodation for a continuous period of more than 24 hours.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-44B-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">This section has effect without prejudice to the powers of the High Court and <span class="LegSubstitution">family court</span> apart from this section.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-44B-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In this section “exclusion requirement” and “relevant person” have the same meaning as in section 44A.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-45"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">45</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Duration of emergency protection orders and other supplemental provisions.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-45-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">An emergency protection order shall have effect for such period, not exceeding eight days, as may be specified in the order.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-45-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-45-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the court making an emergency protection order would, but for this subsection, specify a period of eight days as the period for which the order is to have effect; but</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-45-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the last of those eight days is a public holiday (that is to say, Christmas Day, Good Friday, a bank holiday or a Sunday),</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">the court may specify a period which ends at noon on the first later day which is not such a holiday.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-45-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where an emergency protection order is made on an application under section 46(7), the period of eight days mentioned in subsection (1) shall begin with the first day on which the child was taken into police protection under section 46.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-45-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any person who—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-45-4-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">has parental responsibility for a child as the result of an emergency protection order; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-45-4-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">is entitled to apply for a care order with respect to the child,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">may apply to the court for the period during which the emergency protection order is to have effect to be extended.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-45-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">On an application under subsection (4) the court may extend the period during which the order is to have effect by such period, not exceeding seven days, as it thinks fit, but may do so only if it has reasonable cause to believe that the child concerned is likely to suffer significant harm if the order is not extended.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-45-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">An emergency protection order may only be extended once.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-45-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Regardless of any enactment or rule of law which would otherwise prevent it from doing so, a court hearing an application for, or with respect to, an emergency protection order may take account of—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-45-7-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any statement contained in any report made to the court in the course of, or in connection with, the hearing; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-45-7-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any evidence given during the hearing,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">which is, in the opinion of the court, relevant to the application.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-45-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any of the following may apply to the court for an emergency protection order to be discharged—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-45-8-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the child;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-45-8-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">a parent of his;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-45-8-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any person who is not a parent of his but who has parental responsibility for him; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-45-8-d">(d)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any person with whom he was living immediately before the making of the order.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-45-8A"><span class="LegAddition">(8A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">On the application of a person who is not entitled to apply for the order to be discharged, but who is a person to whom an exclusion requirement contained in the order applies, an emergency protection order may be varied or discharged by the court in so far as it imposes the exclusion requirement.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-45-8B"><span class="LegAddition">(8B)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where a power of arrest has been attached to an exclusion requirement of an emergency protection order, the court may, on the application of any person entitled to apply for the discharge of the order so far as it imposes the exclusion requirement, vary or discharge the order in so far as it confers a power of arrest (whether or not any application has been made to vary or discharge any other provision of the order).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-45-9">(9)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-45-10"><span class="LegAddition">(10)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">No appeal may be made against—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-45-10-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the making of, or refusal to make, an emergency protection order;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-45-10-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the extension of, or refusal to extend, the period during which such an order is to have effect;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-45-10-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the discharge of, or refusal to discharge, such an order; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-45-10-d"><span class="LegAddition">(d)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the giving of, or refusal to give, any direction in connection with such an order.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-45-11">(11)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Subsection (8) does not apply—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-45-11-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">where the person who would otherwise be entitled to apply for the emergency protection order to be discharged—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-45-11-a-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">was given notice (in accordance with rules of court) of the hearing at which the order was made; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-45-11-a-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">was present at that hearing; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-45-11-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">to any emergency protection order the effective period of which has been extended under subsection (5).</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-45-12">(12)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A court making an emergency protection order may direct that the applicant may, in exercising any powers which he has by virtue of the order, be accompanied by a registered medical practitioner, registered nurse or <span class="LegAddition">registered midwife</span>, if he so chooses.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-45-13"><span class="LegAddition">(13)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The reference in subsection (12) to a registered midwife is to such a midwife who is also registered in the Specialist Community Public Health Nurses' Part of the register maintained under article 5 of the Nursing and Midwifery Order 2001.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-46"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">46</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Removal and accommodation of children by police in cases of emergency.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-46-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a constable has reasonable cause to believe that a child would otherwise be likely to suffer significant harm, he may—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-46-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">remove the child to suitable accommodation and keep him there; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-46-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">take such steps as are reasonable to ensure that the child’s removal from any hospital, or other place, in which he is then being accommodated is prevented.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-46-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">For the purposes of this Act, a child with respect to whom a constable has exercised his powers under this section is referred to as having been taken into police protection.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-46-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">As soon as is reasonably practicable after taking a child into police protection, the constable concerned shall—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-46-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">inform the local authority within whose area the child was found of the steps that have been, and are proposed to be, taken with respect to the child under this section and the reasons for taking them;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-46-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">give details to the authority within whose area the child is ordinarily resident (“the appropriate authority”) of the place at which the child is being accommodated;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-46-3-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">inform the child (if he appears capable of understanding)—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-46-3-c-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">of the steps that have been taken with respect to him under this section and of the reasons for taking them; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-46-3-c-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">of the further steps that may be taken with respect to him under this section;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-46-3-d">(d)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">take such steps as are reasonably practicable to discover the wishes and feelings of the child;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-46-3-e">(e)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">secure that the case is inquired into by an officer designated for the purposes of this section by the chief officer of the police area concerned; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-46-3-f">(f)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">where the child was taken into police protection by being removed to accommodation which is not provided—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-46-3-f-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">by or on behalf of a local authority; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-46-3-f-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">as a refuge, in compliance with the requirements of section 51,secure that he is moved to accommodation which is so provided.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-46-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">As soon as is reasonably practicable after taking a child into police protection, the constable concerned shall take such steps as are reasonably practicable to inform—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-46-4-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the child’s parents;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-46-4-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">every person who is not a parent of his but who has parental responsibility for him; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-46-4-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any other person with whom the child was living immediately before being taken into police protection,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">of the steps that he has taken under this section with respect to the child, the reasons for taking them and the further steps that may be taken with respect to him under this section.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-46-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">On completing any inquiry under subsection (3)(e), the officer conducting it shall release the child from police protection unless he considers that there is still reasonable cause for believing that the child would be likely to suffer significant harm if released.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-46-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">No child may be kept in police protection for more than 72 hours.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-46-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">While a child is being kept in police protection, the designated officer may apply on behalf of the appropriate authority for an emergency protection order to be made under section 44 with respect to the child.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-46-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">An application may be made under subsection (7) whether or not the authority know of it or agree to its being made.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-46-9">(9)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">While a child is being kept in police protection—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-46-9-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">neither the constable concerned nor the designated officer shall have parental responsibility for him; but</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-46-9-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the designated officer shall do what is reasonable in all the circumstances of the case for the purpose of safeguarding or promoting the child’s welfare (having regard in particular to the length of the period during which the child will be so protected).</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-46-10">(10)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a child has been taken into police protection, the designated officer shall allow—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-46-10-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the child’s parents;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-46-10-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any person who is not a parent of the child but who has parental responsibility for him;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-46-10-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any person with whom the child was living immediately before he was taken into police protection;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-46-10-d"><span class="LegSubstitution">(d)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">any person named in a child arrangements order as a person with whom the child is to spend time or otherwise have contact;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-46-10-e">(e)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any person who is allowed to have contact with the child by virtue of an order under section 34; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-46-10-f">(f)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any person acting on behalf of any of those persons,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">to have such contact (if any) with the child as, in the opinion of the designated officer, is both reasonable and in the child’s best interests.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-46-11">(11)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a child who has been taken into police protection is in accommodation provided by, or on behalf of, the appropriate authority, subsection (10) shall have effect as if it referred to the authority rather than to the designated officer.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-47"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">47</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Local authority’s duty to investigate.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-47-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a local authority—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-47-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">are informed that a child who lives, or is found, in their area—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-47-1-a-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">is the subject of an emergency protection order; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-47-1-a-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">is in police protection; ... </span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-47-1-a-iii">(iii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-47-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">have reasonable cause to suspect that a child who lives, or is found, in their area is suffering, or is likely to suffer, significant harm,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">the authority shall make, or cause to be made, such enquiries as they consider necessary to enable them to decide whether they should take any action to safeguard or promote the child’s welfare. ....
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-47-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a local authority have obtained an emergency protection order with respect to a child, they shall make, or cause to be made, such enquiries as they consider necessary to enable them to decide what action they should take to safeguard or promote the child’s welfare.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-47-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The enquiries shall, in particular, be directed towards establishing—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-47-3-a"><span class="LegSubstitution">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">whether the authority should—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-47-3-a-i"><span class="LegSubstitution">(i)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">make any application to court under this Act;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-47-3-a-ii"><span class="LegSubstitution">(ii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">exercise any of their other powers under this Act;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-47-3-a-iii"><span class="LegSubstitution">(iii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">exercise any of their powers under section 11 of the Crime and Disorder Act 1998 (child safety orders); or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-47-3-a-iv"><span class="LegSubstitution">(iv)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">(where the authority is a local authority in Wales) exercise any of their powers under the Social Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014;</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">with respect to the child;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-47-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">whether, in the case of a child—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-47-3-b-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">with respect to whom an emergency protection order has been made; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-47-3-b-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">who is not in accommodation provided by or on behalf of the authority,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP3Text">it would be in the child’s best interests (while an emergency protection order remains in force) for him to be in such accommodation; and
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-47-3-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">whether, in the case of a child who has been taken into police protection, it would be in the child’s best interests for the authority to ask for an application to be made under section 46(7).</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-47-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where enquiries are being made under subsection (1) with respect to a child, the local authority concerned shall (with a view to enabling them to determine what action, if any, to take with respect to him) take such steps as are reasonably practicable—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-47-4-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">to obtain access to him; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-47-4-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">to ensure that access to him is obtained, on their behalf, by a person authorised by them for the purpose,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">unless they are satisfied that they already have sufficient information with respect to him.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-47-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where, as a result of any such enquiries, it appears to the authority that there are matters connected with the child’s education which should be investigated, they shall consult <span class="LegSubstitution">the local authority (as defined in section 579(1) of the Education 1996), if different, specified in subsection (5ZA).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-47-5ZA"><span class="LegSubstitution">(5ZA)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">The local authority referred to in subsection (5) is—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-47-5ZA-a"><span class="LegSubstitution">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">the local authority who —</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="part-V-section-47-5ZA-a-in1"><span class="LegSubstitution">(i)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">maintain any school at which the child is a pupil, or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="part-V-section-47-5ZA-a-in2"><span class="LegSubstitution">(ii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">make arrangements for the provision of education for the child otherwise than at school pursuant to section 19 </span><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegAddition">or 19A</span></span><span class="LegSubstitution"> of the Education Act 1996, or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-47-5ZA-b"><span class="LegSubstitution">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">in a case where the child is a pupil at a school which is not maintained by a local authority, the local authority in whose area the school is situated.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-47-5A"><span class="LegAddition">(5A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">For the purposes of making a determination under this section as to the action to be taken with respect to a child, a local authority shall, so far as is reasonably practicable and consistent with the child’s welfare—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-47-5A-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">ascertain the child’s wishes and feelings regarding the action to be taken with respect to him; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-47-5A-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">give due consideration (having regard to his age and understanding) to such wishes and feelings of the child as they have been able to ascertain.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-47-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where, in the course of enquiries made under this section—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-47-6-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any officer of the local authority concerned; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-47-6-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any person authorised by the authority to act on their behalf in connection with those enquiries—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-47-6-b-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">is refused access to the child concerned; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-47-6-b-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">is denied information as to his whereabouts,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP3Text">the authority shall apply for an emergency protection order, a child assessment order, a care order or a supervision order with respect to the child unless they are satisfied that his welfare can be satisfactorily safeguarded without their doing so.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-47-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">If, on the conclusion of any enquiries or review made under this section, the authority decide not to apply for an emergency protection order, a child assessment order, a care order or a supervision order they shall—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-47-7-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">consider whether it would be appropriate to review the case at a later date; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-47-7-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">if they decide that it would be, determine the date on which that review is to begin.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-47-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where, as a result of complying with this section, a local authority conclude that they should take action to safeguard or promote the child’s welfare they shall take that action (so far as it is both within their power and reasonably practicable for them to do so).</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-47-9">(9)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a local authority are conducting enquiries under this section, it shall be the duty of any person mentioned in subsection (11) to assist them with those enquiries (in particular by providing relevant information and advice) if called upon by the authority to do so.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-47-10">(10)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Subsection (9) does not oblige any person to assist a local authority where doing so would be unreasonable in all the circumstances of the case.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-47-11">(11)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The persons are—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-47-11-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any local authority;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-47-11-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-47-11-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any local housing authority;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-47-11-ca"><span class="LegAddition">(ca)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">NHS England</span></span><span class="LegAddition">;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-47-11-d">(d)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any <span class="LegSubstitution">integrated care board,</span> <span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Local Health Board</span></span><span class="LegAddition">, Special Health Authority</span> ... <span class="LegSubstitution">, National Health Service trust or </span><span class="LegSubstitution">NHS</span><span class="LegSubstitution"> foundation trust</span>; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-47-11-e">(e)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any person authorised by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this section.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-47-12">(12)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a local authority are making enquiries under this section with respect to a child who appears to them to be ordinarily resident within the area of another authority, they shall consult that other authority, who may undertake the necessary enquiries in their place.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-48"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">48</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Powers to assist in discovery of children who may be in need of emergency protection.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-48-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where it appears to a court making an emergency protection order that adequate information as to the child’s whereabouts—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-48-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">is not available to the applicant for the order; but</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-48-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">is available to another person,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">it may include in the order a provision requiring that other person to disclose, if asked to do so by the applicant, any information that he may have as to the child’s whereabouts.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-48-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">No person shall be excused from complying with such a requirement on the ground that complying might incriminate him or his spouse <span class="LegAddition">or civil partner</span> of an offence; but a statement or admission made in complying shall not be admissible in evidence against either of them in proceedings for any offence other than perjury.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-48-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">An emergency protection order may authorise the applicant to enter premises specified by the order and search for the child with respect to whom the order is made.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-48-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where the court is satisfied that there is reasonable cause to believe that there may be another child on those premises with respect to whom an emergency protection order ought to be made, it may make an order authorising the applicant to search for that other child on those premises.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-48-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-48-5-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">an order has been made under subsection (4);</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-48-5-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the child concerned has been found on the premises; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-48-5-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the applicant is satisfied that the grounds for making an emergency protection order exist with respect to him,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">the order shall have effect as if it were an emergency protection order.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-48-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where an order has been made under subsection (4), the applicant shall notify the court of its effect.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-48-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A person shall be guilty of an offence if he intentionally obstructs any person exercising the power of entry and search under subsection (3) or (4).</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-48-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A person guilty of an offence under subsection (7) shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-48-9">(9)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where, on an application made by any person for a warrant under this section, it appears to the court—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-48-9-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">that a person attempting to exercise powers under an emergency protection order has been prevented from doing so by being refused entry to the premises concerned or access to the child concerned; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-48-9-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">that any such person is likely to be so prevented from exercising any such powers,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">it may issue a warrant authorising any constable to assist the person mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b) in the exercise of those powers using reasonable force if necessary.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-48-10">(10)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Every warrant issued under this section shall be addressed to, and executed by, a constable who shall be accompanied by the person applying for the warrant if—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-48-10-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">that person so desires; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-48-10-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the court by whom the warrant is issued does not direct otherwise.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-48-11">(11)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A court granting an application for a warrant under this section may direct that the constable concerned may, in executing the warrant, be accompanied by a registered medical practitioner, registered nurse or <span class="LegAddition">registered midwife</span> if he so chooses.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-48-11A"><span class="LegAddition">(11A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The reference in subsection (11) to a registered midwife is to such a midwife who is also registered in the Specialist Community Public Health Nurses' Part of the register maintained under article 5 of the Nursing and Midwifery Order 2001.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-48-12">(12)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">An application for a warrant under this section shall be made in the manner and form prescribed by rules of court.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-48-13">(13)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Wherever it is reasonably practicable to do so, an order under subsection (4), an application for a warrant under this section and any such warrant shall name the child; and where it does not name him it shall describe him as clearly as possible.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-49"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">49</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Abduction of children in care etc.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-49-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A person shall be guilty of an offence if, knowingly and without lawful authority or reasonable excuse, he—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-49-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">takes a child to whom this section applies away from the responsible person;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-49-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">keeps such a child away from the responsible person; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-49-1-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">induces, assists or incites such a child to run away or stay away from the responsible person.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-49-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">This section applies in relation to a child who is—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-49-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">in care;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-49-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the subject of an emergency protection order; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-49-2-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">in police protection,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">and in this section “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-the-responsible-person">the responsible person</span>” means any person who for the time being has care of him by virtue of the care order, the emergency protection order, or section 46, as the case may be.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-49-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A person guilty of an offence under this section shall be liable on summary conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale, or to both.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-50"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">50</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Recovery of abducted children etc.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to "><span class="btr"/>U.K.<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-50-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where it appears to the court that there is reason to believe that a child to whom this section applies—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-50-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">has been unlawfully taken away or is being unlawfully kept away from the responsible person;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-50-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">has run away or is staying away from the responsible person; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-50-1-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">is missing,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">the court may make an order under this section (“a recovery order”).
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-50-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">This section applies to the same children to whom section 49 applies and in this section “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-the-responsible-person">the responsible person</span>” has the same meaning as in section 49.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-50-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A recovery order—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-50-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">operates as a direction to any person who is in a position to do so to produce the child on request to any authorised person;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-50-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">authorises the removal of the child by any authorised person;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-50-3-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">requires any person who has information as to the child’s whereabouts to disclose that information, if asked to do so, to a constable or an officer of the court;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-50-3-d">(d)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">authorises a constable to enter any premises specified in the order and search for the child using reasonable force if necessary.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-50-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The court may make a recovery order only on the application of—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-50-4-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any person who has parental responsibility for the child by virtue of a care order or emergency protection order; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-50-4-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">where the child is in police protection, the designated officer.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-50-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A recovery order shall name the child and—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-50-5-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any person who has parental responsibility for the child by virtue of a care order or emergency protection order; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-50-5-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">where the child is in police protection, the designated officer.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-50-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Premises may only be specified under subsection (3)(d) if it appears to the court that there are reasonable grounds for believing the child to be on them.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-50-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In this section—</span> </p><ul class="LegTabbedDef LegUnorderedList"><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-an-authorised-person">an authorised person</span>” means—
</p></li></ul><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-50-7-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any person specified by the court;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-50-7-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any constable;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-50-7-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any person who is authorised—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-50-7-c-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">after the recovery order is made; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-50-7-c-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">by a person who has parental responsibility for the child by virtue of a care order or an emergency protection order,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP3Text">to exercise any power under a recovery order; and
</p><div class="LegBlockText"><p class="LegLevel3">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-the-designated-officer">the designated officer</span>” means the officer designated for the purposes of section 46.
</p></div><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-50-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a person is authorised as mentioned in subsection (7)(c)—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-50-8-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the authorisation shall identify the recovery order; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-50-8-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any person claiming to be so authorised shall, if asked to do so, produce some duly authenticated document showing that he is so authorised.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-50-9">(9)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A person shall be guilty of an offence if he intentionally obstructs an authorised person exercising the power under subsection (3)(b) to remove a child.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-50-10">(10)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A person guilty of an offence under this section shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-50-11">(11)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">No person shall be excused from complying with any request made under subsection (3)(c) on the ground that complying with it might incriminate him or his spouse <span class="LegAddition">or civil partner</span> of an offence; but a statement or admission made in complying shall not be admissible in evidence against either of them in proceedings for an offence other than perjury.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-50-12">(12)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a child is made the subject of a recovery order whilst being looked after by a local authority, any reasonable expenses incurred by an authorised person in giving effect to the order shall be recoverable from the authority.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-50-13">(13)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A recovery order shall have effect in Scotland as if it had been made by the Court of Session and as if that court had had jurisdiction to make it.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-50-14">(14)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In this section “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-the-court">the court</span>”, in relation to Northern Ireland, means a magistrates’ court within the meaning of the Magistrates’ Courts (Northern Ireland) Order 1981.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-51"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">51</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Refuges for children at risk.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-51-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where it is proposed to use a voluntary home or <span class="LegAddition">private</span> children’s home to provide a refuge for children who appear to be at risk of harm, the Secretary of State may issue a certificate under this section with respect to that home.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-51-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a local authority or voluntary organisation arrange for a foster parent to provide such a refuge, the Secretary of State may issue a certificate under this section with respect to that foster parent.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-51-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In subsection (2) “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-foster-parent">foster parent</span>” means a person who is, or who from time to time is, a local authority foster parent or a foster parent with whom children are placed by a voluntary organisation.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-51-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The Secretary of State may by regulations—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-51-4-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">make provision as to the manner in which certificates may be issued;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-51-4-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">impose requirements which must be complied with while any certificate is in force; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-51-4-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">provide for the withdrawal of certificates in prescribed circumstances.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-51-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a certificate is in force with respect to a home, none of the provisions mentioned in subsection (7) shall apply in relation to any person providing a refuge for any child in that home.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-51-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a certificate is in force with respect to a foster parent, none of those provisions shall apply in relation to the provision by him of a refuge for any child in accordance with arrangements made by the local authority or voluntary organisation.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-51-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The provisions are—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-51-7-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">section 49;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-51-7-b"><span class="LegSubstitution">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">articles 9, 10 and 11 of the Children’s Hearing (Scotland) Act 2011 (Consequential and Transitional Provisions and Savings) Order 2013, so far as they apply to anything done in England and Wales;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-51-7-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">section 32(3) of the Children and Young Persons Act 1969 (compelling, persuading, inciting or assisting any person to be absent from detention, etc.), so far as it applies in relation to anything done in England and Wales;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-51-7-d">(d)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">section 2 of the Child Abduction Act 1984.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-52"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">52</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Rules and regulations.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-52-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Without prejudice to section 93 or any other power to make such rules, rules of court may be made with respect to the procedure to be followed in connection with proceedings under this Part.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-52-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The rules may, in particular make provision—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-52-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">as to the form in which any application is to be made or direction is to be given;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-52-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">prescribing the persons who are to be notified of—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-52-2-b-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">the making, or extension, of an emergency protection order; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-52-2-b-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">the making of an application under section 45(4) or (8) or 46(7); and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-52-2-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">as to the content of any such notification and the manner in which, and person by whom, it is to be given.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-52-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The Secretary of State may by regulations provide that, where—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-52-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">an emergency protection order has been made with respect to a child;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-52-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the applicant for the order was not the local authority within whose area the child is ordinarily resident; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-52-3-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">that local authority are of the opinion that it would be in the child’s best interests for the applicant’s responsibilities under the order to be transferred to them,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">that authority shall (subject to their having complied with any requirements imposed by the regulations) be treated, for the purposes of this Act, as though they and not the original applicant had applied for, and been granted, the order.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-52-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Regulations made under subsection (3) may, in particular, make provision as to—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-52-4-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the considerations to which the local authority shall have regard in forming an opinion as mentioned in subsection (3)(c); and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-52-4-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the time at which responsibility under any emergency protection order is to be treated as having been transferred to a local authority.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="part-VI"/><div class="LegClearPart"/><h2 class="LegPart"><span class="LegPartNo">Part VI<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span><span class="LegPartTitle"> Community Homes</span></h2><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-53"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">53</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst"> Provision of community homes by local authorities.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-53-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Every local authority shall make such arrangements as they consider appropriate for securing that homes (“community homes”) are available—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-53-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">for the care and accommodation of children looked after by them; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-53-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">for purposes connected with the welfare of children (whether or not looked after by them),</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">and may do so jointly with one or more other local authorities.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-53-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In making such arrangements, a local authority shall have regard to the need for ensuring the availability of accommodation—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-53-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">of different descriptions; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-53-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">which is suitable for different purposes and the requirements of different descriptions of children.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-53-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A community home may be a home—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-53-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">provided, <span class="LegAddition">equipped, maintained and (subject to subsection (3A)) managed</span> by a local authority; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-53-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">provided by a voluntary organisation but in respect of which a local authority and the organisation—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-53-3-b-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">propose that, in accordance with an instrument of management, the <span class="LegAddition">equipment, maintenance and (subject to subsection (3B)) management</span> of the home shall be the responsibility of the local authority; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-53-3-b-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">so propose that the management, equipment and maintenance of the home shall be the responsibility of the voluntary organisation.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-53-3A"><span class="LegAddition">(3A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A local authority may make arrangements for the management by another person of accommodation provided by the local authority for the purpose of restricting the liberty of children.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-53-3B"><span class="LegAddition">(3B)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where a local authority are to be responsible for the management of a community home provided by a voluntary organisation, the local authority may, with the consent of the body of managers constituted by the instrument of management for the home, make arrangements for the management by another person of accommodation provided for the purpose of restricting the liberty of children.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-53-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a local authority are to be responsible for the management of a community home provided by a voluntary organisation, the authority shall designate the home as a controlled community home.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-53-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a voluntary organisation are to be responsible for the management of a community home provided by the organisation, the local authority shall designate the home as an assisted community home.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-53-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Schedule 4 shall have effect for the purpose of supplementing the provisions of this Part.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-54"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">54</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-55"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">55</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Determination of disputes relating to controlled and assisted community homes.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-55-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where any dispute relating to a controlled community home arises between the local authority specified in the home’s instrument of management and—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-55-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the voluntary organisation by which the home is provided; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-55-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any other local authority who have placed, or desire or are required to place, in the home a child who is looked after by them,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">the dispute may be referred by either party to the Secretary of State for his determination.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-55-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where any dispute relating to an assisted community home arises between the voluntary organisation by which the home is provided and any local authority who have placed, or desire to place, in the home a child who is looked after by them, the dispute may be referred by either party to the Secretary of State for his determination.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-55-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a dispute is referred to the Secretary of State under this section he may, in order to give effect to his determination of the dispute, give such directions as he thinks fit to the local authority or voluntary organisation concerned.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-55-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">This section applies even though the matter in dispute may be one which, under or by virtue of Part II of Schedule 4, is reserved for the decision, or is the responsibility, of—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-55-4-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the local authority specified in the home’s instrument of management; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-55-4-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">(as the case may be) the voluntary organisation by which the home is provided.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-55-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where any trust deed relating to a controlled or assisted community home contains provision whereby a bishop or any other ecclesiastical or denominational authority has power to decide questions relating to religious instruction given in the home, no dispute which is capable of being dealt with in accordance with that provision shall be referred to the Secretary of State under this section.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-55-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In this Part “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-trust-deed">trust deed</span>”, in relation to a voluntary home, means any instrument (other than an instrument of management) regulating—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-55-6-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the maintenance, management or conduct of the home; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-55-6-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the constitution of a body of managers or trustees of the home.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-56"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">56</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Discontinuance by voluntary organisation of controlled or assisted community home.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-56-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The voluntary organisation by which a controlled or assisted community home is provided shall not cease to provide the home except after giving to the Secretary of State and the local authority specified in the home’s instrument of management not less than two years’ notice in writing of their intention to do so.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-56-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A notice under subsection (1) shall specify the date from which the voluntary organisation intend to cease to provide the home as a community home.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-56-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where such a notice is given and is not withdrawn before the date specified in it, the home’s instrument of management shall cease to have effect on that date and the home shall then cease to be a controlled or assisted community home.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-56-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a notice is given under subsection (1) and the home’s managers give notice in writing to the Secretary of State that they are unable or unwilling to continue as its managers until the date specified in the subsection (1) notice, the Secretary of State may by order—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-56-4-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">revoke the home’s instrument of management; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-56-4-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">require the local authority who were specified in that instrument to conduct the home until—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-56-4-b-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">the date specified in the subsection (1) notice; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-56-4-b-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">such earlier date (if any) as may be specified for the purposes of this paragraph in the order,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP3Text">as if it were a community home provided by the local authority.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-56-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where the Secretary of State imposes a requirement under subsection (4)(b)—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-56-5-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">nothing in the trust deed for the home shall affect the conduct of the home by the local authority;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-56-5-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the Secretary of State may by order direct that for the purposes of any provision specified in the direction and made by or under any enactment relating to community homes (other than this section) the home shall, until the date or earlier date specified as mentioned in subsection (4)(b), be treated as a controlled or assisted community home;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-56-5-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">except in so far as the Secretary of State so directs, the home shall until that date be treated for the purposes of any such enactment as a community home provided by the local authority; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-56-5-d">(d)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">on the date or earlier date specified as mentioned in subsection (4)(b) the home shall cease to be a community home.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-57"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">57</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Closure by local authority of controlled or assisted community home.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-57-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The local authority specified in the instrument of management for a controlled or assisted community home may give—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-57-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the Secretary of State; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-57-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the voluntary organisation by which the home is provided,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">not less than two years’ notice in writing of their intention to withdraw their designation of the home as a controlled or assisted community home.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-57-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A notice under subsection (1) shall specify the date (“the specified date”) on which the designation is to be withdrawn.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-57-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-57-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">a notice is given under subsection (1) in respect of a controlled or assisted community home;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-57-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the home’s managers give notice in writing to the Secretary of State that they are unable or unwilling to continue as managers until the specified date; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-57-3-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the managers’ notice is not withdrawn,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">the Secretary of State may by order revoke the home’s instrument of management from such date earlier than the specified date as may be specified in the order.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-57-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Before making an order under subsection (3), the Secretary of State shall consult the local authority and the voluntary organisation.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-57-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a notice has been given under subsection (1) and is not withdrawn, the home’s instrument of management shall cease to have effect on—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-57-5-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the specified date; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-57-5-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">where an earlier date has been specified under subsection (3), that earlier date,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">and the home shall then cease to be a community home.
</p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-58"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">58</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Financial provisions applicable on cessation of controlled or assisted community home or disposal etc. of premises.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-58-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-58-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the instrument of management for a controlled or assisted community home is revoked or otherwise ceases to have effect under section . . . , 56(3) or (4)(a) or 57(3) or (5); or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-58-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any premises used for the purposes of such a home are (at any time after 13th January 1987) disposed of, or put to use otherwise than for those purposes,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">the proprietor shall become liable to pay compensation (“the appropriate compensation”) in accordance with this section.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-58-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where the instrument of management in force at the relevant time relates—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-58-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">to a controlled community home; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-58-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">to an assisted community home which, at any time before the instrument came into force, was a controlled community home,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">the appropriate compensation is a sum equal to that part of the value of any premises which is attributable to expenditure incurred in relation to the premises, while the home was a controlled community home, by the authority who were then the responsible authority.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-58-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where the instrument of management in force at the relevant time relates—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-58-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">to an assisted community home; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-58-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">to a controlled community home which, at any time before the instrument came into force, was an assisted community home,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">the appropriate compensation is a sum equal to that part of the value of the premises which is attributable to the expenditure of money provided by way of grant under section 82, section 65 of the Children and Young Persons Act 1969 or section 82 of the Child Care Act 1980.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-58-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where the home is, at the relevant time, conducted in premises which formerly were used as an approved school or were an approved probation hostel or home, the appropriate compensation is a sum equal to that part of the value of the premises which is attributable to the expenditure—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-58-4-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">of sums paid towards the expenses of the managers of an approved school under section 104 of the Children and Young Persons Act 1933; . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-58-4-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">of sums paid under section 51(3)(c) of the Powers of Criminal Courts Act 1973 <span class="LegAddition">or section 20(1)(c) of the Probation Service Act 1993</span> in relation to expenditure on approved probation hostels or homes. <span class="LegAddition">or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-58-4-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">of sums paid under section 3, 5 or 9 of the Criminal Justice and Court Services Act 2000 in relation to expenditure on approved premises (within the meaning of Part I of that Act).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-58-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The appropriate compensation shall be paid—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-58-5-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">in the case of compensation payable under subsection (2), to the authority who were the responsible authority at the relevant time; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-58-5-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">in any other case, to the Secretary of State.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-58-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In this section—</span> </p><ul class="LegTabbedDef LegUnorderedList"><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-disposal">disposal</span>” includes the grant of a tenancy and any other conveyance, assignment, transfer, grant, variation or extinguishment of an interest in or right over land, whether made by instrument or otherwise;
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-premises">premises</span>” means any premises or part of premises (including land) used for the purposes of the home and belonging to the proprietor;
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-the-proprietor">the proprietor</span>” means—
</p></li></ul><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-58-6-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the voluntary organisation by which the home is, at the relevant time, provided; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-58-6-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">if the premises are not, at the relevant time, vested in that organisation, the persons in whom they are vested;</span> </p><ul class="LegTabbedDef LegUnorderedList"><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-the-relevant-time">the relevant time</span>” means the time immediately before the liability to pay arises under subsection (1); and
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-the-responsible-authority">the responsible authority</span>” means the local authority specified in the instrument of management in question.
</p></li></ul><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-58-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">For the purposes of this section an event of a kind mentioned in subsection (1)(b) shall be taken to have occurred—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-58-7-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">in the case of a disposal, on the date on which the disposal was completed or, in the case of a disposal which is effected by a series of transactions, the date on which the last of those transactions was completed;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-58-7-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">in the case of premises which are put to different use, on the date on which they first begin to be put to their new use.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-58-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The amount of any sum payable under this section shall be determined in accordance with such arrangements—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-58-8-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">as may be agreed between the voluntary organisation by which the home is, at the relevant time, provided and the responsible authority or (as the case may be) the Secretary of State; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-58-8-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">in default of agreement, as may be determined by the Secretary of State.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-58-9">(9)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">With the agreement of the responsible authority or (as the case may be) the Secretary of State, the liability to pay any sum under this section may be discharged, in whole or in part, by the transfer of any premises.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-58-10">(10)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">This section has effect regardless of—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-58-10-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">anything in any trust deed for a controlled or assisted community home;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-58-10-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the provisions of any enactment or instrument governing the disposition of the property of a voluntary organisation.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="part-VII"/><div class="LegClearPart"/><h2 class="LegPart"><span class="LegPartNo">Part VII<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span><span class="LegPartTitle"> Voluntary Homes and Voluntary Organisations</span></h2><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-59"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">59</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst">` Provision of accommodation by voluntary organisations.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-59-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a voluntary organisation provide accommodation for a child, they shall do so by—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-59-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">placing him (subject to subsection (2)) with —</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-59-1-a-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">a family;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-59-1-a-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">a relative of his; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-59-1-a-iii">(iii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">any other suitable person,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP3Text">on such terms as to payment by the organisation and otherwise as the organisation may determine <span class="LegAddition">(subject to section 49 of the Children Act 2004)</span>;
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-59-1-aa"><span class="LegAddition">(aa)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">maintaining him in </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">a children's home in respect of which a person is registered under Part 2 of the Care Standards Act 2000 </span></span> <span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">or Part 1 of the Regulation and Inspection of Social Care (Wales) Act 2016</span></span><span class="LegAddition">;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-59-1-f">(f)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">making such other arrangements (subject to subsection (3)) as seem appropriate to them.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-59-1A"><span class="LegAddition">(1A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where under subsection (1)(aa) a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">voluntary organisation</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> maintains a child in a home provided, equipped and maintained by </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an appropriate national authority</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> under section 82(5), it shall do so on such terms as </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">that national authority</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> may from time to time determine.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-59-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The <span class="LegSubstitution">appropriate national authority</span> may make regulations as to the placing of children with foster parents by voluntary organisations ... .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-59-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The <span class="LegSubstitution">appropriate national authority</span> may make regulations as to the arrangements which may be made under subsection (1)(f) ... .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-59-3A"><span class="LegAddition">(3A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Regulations </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">made in relation to England</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> under subsection (2) or (3) may in particular make provision which (with any necessary modifications) is similar to that which may be made under section 22C by virtue of any of paragraphs 12B, 12E and 12F of Schedule 2.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-59-3B"><span class="LegAddition">(3B)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Regulations made in relation to Wales under subsection (2) or (3) may in particular make provision which (with any necessary modifications) is similar to that which may be made under sections 81 or 87 of the Social Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014, including provision which may be made under section 87 in accordance with the examples given in sections 89, 92 and 93 of that Act.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-59-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The <span class="LegSubstitution">appropriate national authority</span> may make regulations requiring any voluntary organisation who are providing accommodation for a child—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-59-4-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">to review his case; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-59-4-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">to consider any representations (including any complaint) made to them by any person falling within a prescribed class of person,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">in accordance with the provisions of the regulations.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-59-5A"><span class="LegSubstitution">(5A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">Regulations </span><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegAddition">made in relation to England</span></span><span class="LegSubstitution"> under subsection (4) may, in particular—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-59-5A-a"><span class="LegSubstitution">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">apply with modifications any provision of section 25A or 25B;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-59-5A-b"><span class="LegSubstitution">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">make provision which (with any necessary modifications) is similar to any provision which may be made under section 25A, 25B or 26.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-59-5B"><span class="LegAddition">(5B)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Regulations made in relation to Wales under subsection (4) may in particular make provision which (with any necessary modifications) is similar to that which may be made under sections 99, 100 or 102 of the Social Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-59-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Regulations under subsections (2) to (4) may provide that any person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes or fails to comply with a regulation shall be guilty of an offence and liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 4 on the standard scale.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-59-7"><span class="LegAddition">(7)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> In this Part “</span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-appropriate-national-authority"><span class="LegAddition">appropriate national authority</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” means— </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-59-7-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in relation to England, the Secretary of State; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-59-7-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in relation to Wales, the Welsh Ministers.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-60"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">60</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Voluntary homes.</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-60-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-60-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-60-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">In this Act “</span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-voluntary-home"><span class="LegAddition">voluntary home</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” means a children’s home which is carried on by a voluntary organisation but does not include a community home.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-60-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Schedule 5 shall have effect for the purpose of supplementing the provisions of this Part.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-61"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">61</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Duties of voluntary organisations.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-61-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a child is accommodated by or on behalf of a voluntary organisation, it shall be the duty of the organisation—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-61-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">to safeguard and promote his welfare;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-61-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">to make such use of the services and facilities available for children cared for by their own parents as appears to the organisation reasonable in his case; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-61-1-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">to advise, assist and befriend him with a view to promoting his welfare when he ceases to be so accommodated.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-61-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Before making any decision with respect to any such child the organisation shall, so far as is reasonably practicable, ascertain the wishes and feelings of—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-61-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the child;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-61-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">his parents;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-61-2-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any person who is not a parent of his but who has parental responsibility for him; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-61-2-d">(d)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any other person whose wishes and feelings the organisation consider to be relevant,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">regarding the matter to be decided.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-61-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In making any such decision the organisation shall give due consideration—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-61-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">having regard to the child’s age and understanding, to such wishes and feelings of his as they have been able to ascertain;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-61-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">to such other wishes and feelings mentioned in subsection (2) as they have been able to ascertain; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-61-3-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">to the child’s religious persuasion, racial origin and cultural and linguistic background.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-62"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">62</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Duties of local authorities.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-62-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Every local authority shall satisfy themselves that any voluntary organisation providing accommodation—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-62-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">within the authority’s area for any child; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-62-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">outside that area for any child on behalf of the authority,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">are satisfactorily safeguarding and promoting the welfare of the children so provided with accommodation.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-62-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Every local authority shall arrange for children who are accommodated within their area by or on behalf of voluntary organisations to be visited, from time to time, in the interests of their welfare.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-62-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The <span class="LegSubstitution">appropriate national authority</span> may make regulations—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-62-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">requiring every child who is accommodated within a local authority’s area, by or on behalf of a voluntary organisation, to be visited by an officer of the authority—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-62-3-a-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">in prescribed circumstances; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-62-3-a-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">on specified occasions or within specified periods; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-62-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">imposing requirements which must be met by any local authority, or officer of a local authority, carrying out functions under this section.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-62-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Subsection (2) does not apply in relation to community homes.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-62-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a local authority are not satisfied that the welfare of any child who is accommodated by or on behalf of a voluntary organisation is being satisfactorily safeguarded or promoted they shall—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-62-5-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">unless they consider that it would not be in the best interests of the child, take such steps as are reasonably practicable to secure that the care and accommodation of the child is undertaken by—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-62-5-a-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">a parent of his;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-62-5-a-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">any person who is not a parent of his but who has parental responsibility for him; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-62-5-a-iii">(iii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">a relative of his; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-62-5-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">consider the extent to which (if at all) they should exercise any of their functions with respect to the child.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-62-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any person authorised by a local authority may, for the purpose of enabling the authority to discharge their duties under this section—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-62-6-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">enter, at any reasonable time, and inspect any premises in which children are being accommodated as mentioned in subsection (1) or (2);</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-62-6-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">inspect any children there;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-62-6-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">require any person to furnish him with such records of a kind required to be kept by regulations made under <span class="LegAddition">section 22 of the Care Standards Act 2000</span> <span class="LegAddition">or section 20 of the Health and Social Care Act 2008</span> <span class="LegAddition">, or section 27 of the Regulation and Inspection of Social Care (Wales) Act 2016 (anaw 2)</span> (in whatever form they are held), or allow him to inspect such records, as he may at any time direct.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-62-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any person exercising the power conferred by subsection (6) shall, if asked to do so, produce some duly authenticated document showing his authority to do so.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-62-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any person authorised to exercise the power to inspect records conferred by subsection (6)—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-62-8-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">shall be entitled at any reasonable time to have access to, and inspect and check the operation of, any computer and any associated apparatus or material which is or has been in use in connection with the records in question; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-62-8-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">may require—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-62-8-b-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">the person by whom or on whose behalf the computer is or has been so used; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-62-8-b-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">any person having charge of, or otherwise concerned with the operation of, the computer, apparatus or material,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP3Text">to afford him such assistance as he may reasonably require.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-62-9">(9)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any person who intentionally obstructs another in the exercise of any power conferred by subsection (6) or (8) shall be guilty of an offence and liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-62-10"><span class="LegAddition">(10)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> This section does not apply in relation to any voluntary organisation which is an institution within the further education sector, as defined in section 91 of the </span><span class="LegAddition"> Further and Higher Education Act 1992, </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">a 16 to 19 Academy</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> or a school.</span> </span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="part-VIII"/><div class="LegClearPart"/><h2 class="LegPart"><span class="LegPartNo">Part VIII<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span><span class="LegPartTitle"> Registered Children’s Homes</span></h2><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-63"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">63</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst"><span class="LegAddition"> Private children’s homes </span><span class="LegAddition">etc.</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-63-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-63-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-63-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-63-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-63-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-63-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-63-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-63-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-63-9">(9)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-63-10">(10)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-63-11">(11)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Schedule 6 shall have effect with respect to <span class="LegAddition">private</span> children’s homes.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-63-12">(12)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Schedule 7 shall have effect for the purpose of setting out the circumstances in which a person may foster more than three children <span class="LegSubstitution">without being treated— </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-63-12-a"><span class="LegSubstitution">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">for the purposes of this Act and the Care Standards Act 2000,</span> as carrying on a children’s home <span class="LegAddition">; and </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-63-12-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">for the purposes of the Regulation and Inspection of Social Care (Wales) Act 2016, as providing a care home service within the meaning of Part 1 of that Act</span>.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-64"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">64</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Welfare of children in children’s homes.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-64-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a child is accommodated in a <span class="LegAddition">private</span> children’s home, it shall be the duty of the person carrying on the home to—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-64-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">safeguard and promote the child’s welfare;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-64-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">make such use of the services and facilities available for children cared for by their own parents as appears to that person reasonable in the case of the child; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-64-1-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">advise, assist and befriend him with a view to promoting his welfare when he ceases to be so accommodated.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-64-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Before making any decision with respect to any such child the person carrying on the home shall, so far as is reasonably practicable, ascertain the wishes and feelings of—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-64-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the child;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-64-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">his parents;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-64-2-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any other person who is not a parent of his but who has parental responsibility for him; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-64-2-d">(d)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any person whose wishes and feelings the person carrying on the home considers to be relevant,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">regarding the matter to be decided.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-64-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In making any such decision the person concerned shall give due consideration—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-64-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">having regard to the child’s age and understanding, to such wishes and feelings of his as he has been able to ascertain;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-64-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">to such other wishes and feelings mentioned in subsection (2) as he has been able to ascertain; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-64-3-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">to the child’s religious persuasion, racial origin and cultural and linguistic background.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-64-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Section 62, except subsection (4), shall apply in relation to any person who is carrying on a <span class="LegAddition">private</span> children’s home as it applies in relation to any voluntary organisation.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-65"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">65</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle">2 Persons disqualified from carrying on, or being employed in children’s homes.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-65-A1"><span class="LegAddition">(A1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A person (“P”) who is disqualified (under section 68) from fostering a child privately must not carry on, or be otherwise concerned in the management of, or have any financial interest in, a children's home in England unless—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-65-A1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">P has, within the period of 28 days beginning with the day on which P became aware of P's disqualification, disclosed to the appropriate authority the fact that P is so disqualified, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-65-A1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">P has obtained the appropriate authority's written consent.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-65-A2"><span class="LegAddition">(A2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A person (“E”) must not employ a person (“P”) who is so disqualified in a children's home in England unless—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-65-A2-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">E has, within the period of 28 days beginning with the day on which E became aware of P's disqualification, disclosed to the appropriate authority the fact that P is so disqualified, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-65-A2-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">E has obtained the appropriate authority's written consent.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-65-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A person who is disqualified (under section 68) from fostering a child privately shall not carry on, or be otherwise concerned in the management of, or have any financial interest in a children’s home <span class="LegAddition">in Wales</span> unless he has—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-65-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">disclosed to <span class="LegAddition">the appropriate authority</span> the fact that he is so disqualified; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-65-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">obtained <span class="LegAddition">its</span> written consent.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-65-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">No person shall employ a person who is so disqualified in a children’s home <span class="LegAddition">in Wales</span> unless he has—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-65-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">disclosed to <span class="LegAddition">the appropriate authority</span> the fact that that person is so disqualified; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-65-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">obtained <span class="LegAddition">its</span> written consent.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-65-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where <span class="LegAddition">the appropriate authority refuses to give its consent under this section, it</span> shall inform the applicant by a written notice which states—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-65-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the reason for the refusal;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-65-3-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the applicant’s right to appeal under section 65A against the refusal to the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">First-tier Tribunal</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-65-3-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the time within which he may do so.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-65-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any person who contravenes subsection <span class="LegAddition">(A1), (A2),</span> (1) or (2) shall be guilty of an offence and liable on summary conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale or to both.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-65-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a person contravenes subsection <span class="LegAddition">(A2) or</span> (2) he shall not be guilty of an offence if he proves that he did not know, and had no reasonable grounds for believing, that the person whom he was employing was disqualified under section 68.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-65-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> In this section and section 65A “</span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-appropriate-authority"><span class="LegAddition">appropriate authority</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” means— </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-65-6-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in relation to England, the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Her Majesty's Chief Inspector of Education, Children's Services and Skills</span></span><span class="LegAddition">; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-65-6-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in relation to Wales, the National Assembly for Wales.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-65A"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">65A</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition"> Appeal against refusal of authority to give consent under section 65.</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-65A-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">An appeal against a decision of an appropriate authority under section 65 shall lie to the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">First-tier Tribunal</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> .</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-65A-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">On an appeal the Tribunal may confirm the authority’s decision or direct it to give the consent in question.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="part-IX"/><div class="LegClearPart"/><h2 class="LegPart"><span class="LegPartNo">PART IX<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span><span class="LegPartTitle"> PRIVATE ARRANGEMENTS FOR FOSTERING CHILDREN</span></h2><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-66"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">66</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst"> Privately fostered children.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-66-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In this Part—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-66-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-a-privately-fostered-child">a privately fostered child</span>” means a child who is under the age of sixteen and who is cared for, and provided with accommodation <span class="LegAddition">in their own home</span> by, someone other than—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-66-1-a-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">a parent of his;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-66-1-a-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">a person who is not a parent of his but who has parental responsibility for him; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-66-1-a-iii">(iii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">a relative of his; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-66-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-to-foster-a-child-privately">to foster a child privately</span>” means to look after the child in circumstances in which he is a privately fostered child as defined by this section.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-66-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A child is not privately fostered child if the person caring for and accommodating him—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-66-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">has done so for a period a period of less than 28 days; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-66-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">does not intend to do so for any longer period.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-66-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Subsection (1) is subject to —</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-66-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the provisions of section 63; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-66-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the exceptions made by paragraph 1 to 5 of Schedule 8.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-66-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In the case of a child who is disabled, subsection (1)(a) shall have effect as if for “sixteen”there were substituted “eighteen”.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-66-4A"><span class="LegAddition">(4A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision as to the circumstances in which a person who provides accommodation to a child is, or is not, to be treated as providing him with accommodation in the person’s own home.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-66-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Schedule 8 shall have effect for the purposes of supplementing the provision made by this Part.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-67"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">67</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Welfare of privately fostered children.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-67-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">It shall be the duty of every local authority to satisfy themselves that the welfare of children who are <span class="LegAddition">or are proposed to be</span> privately fostered within their area is being <span class="LegAddition">or will be</span> satisfactorily safeguarded and promoted and to secure that such advice is given to those <span class="LegSubstitution">concerned with</span> them as appears to the authority to be needed.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-67-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The Secretary of State may make regulations—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-67-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">requiring every child who is privately fostered within a local authority’s area to be visited by an officer of the authority—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-67-2-a-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">in prescribed circumstances; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-67-2-a-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">on specified occasions or within specified periods; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-67-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">imposing requirements which are to be met by any local authority, or officer of a local authority, in carrying out functions under this section.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-67-2A"><span class="LegAddition">(2A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Regulations under subsection (2)(b) may impose requirements as to the action to be taken by a local authority for the purposes of discharging their duty under subsection (1) where they have received notification of a proposal that a child be privately fostered.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-67-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where any person who is authorised by a local authority to visit <span class="LegSubstitution">for the purpose</span> has reasonable cause to believe that—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-67-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any privately fostered child is being accommodated in premises within the authority’s area; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-67-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">it is proposed to accommodate any such child in any such premises,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">he may at any reasonable time inspect those premises and any children there.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-67-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any person exercising the power under subsection (3) shall, if so required, produce some duly authenticated document showing his authority to do so.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-67-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a local authority are not satisfied that the welfare of any child who is <span class="LegAddition">or is proposed to be</span> privately fostered within their area is being <span class="LegAddition">or will be</span> satisfactorily safeguarded or promoted they shall—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-67-5-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"> unless they consider that it would not be in the best interests of the child, take such steps as are reasonably practicable to secure that the care and accommodation of the child is undertaken by—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-67-5-a-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">a parent of his;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-67-5-a-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">any person who is not a parent of his but who has</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP3Text">parental responsibility for him; or
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-67-5-a-iii">(iii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">a relative of his; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-67-5-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">consider the extent to which (if at all) they should exercise any of their functions under this Act with respect to the child.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-67-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The Secretary of State may make regulations requiring a local authority to monitor the way in which the authority discharge their functions under this Part (and the regulations may in particular require the authority to appoint an officer for that purpose).</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-68"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">68</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Persons disqualified from being private foster parents.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-68-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Unless he has disclosed the fact to the appropriate local authority and obtained their written consent, a person shall not foster a child privately if he is disqualified from doing so by regulations made by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this section.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-68-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The regulations may, in particular, provide for a person to be so disqualified where—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-68-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">an order of a kind specified in the regulations has been made at any time with respect to him;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-68-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">an order of a kind so specified has been made at any time with respect to any child who has been in his care;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-68-2-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">a requirement of a kind so specified has been imposed at any time with respect to any such child, under or by virtue of any enactment;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-68-2-d">(d)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">he has been convicted of any offence of a kind so specified, or. . . discharged absolutely or conditionally for any such offence;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-68-2-e">(e)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">a prohibition has been imposed on him at any time under section 69 or under any other specified enactment;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-68-2-f">(f)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">his rights and powers with respect to a child have at any time been vested in a specified authority under a specified enactment.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-68-2A"><span class="LegAddition">(2A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A conviction in respect of which a probation order was made before 1st October 1992 (which would not otherwise be treated as a conviction) is to be treated as a conviction for the purposes of subsection (2)(d).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-68-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Unless he has disclosed the fact to the appropriate local authority and obtained their written consent, a person shall not foster a child privately if—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-68-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">he lives in the same household as a person who is himself prevented from fostering a child by subsection (1); or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-68-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">he lives in a household at which any such person is employed.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-68-3A"><span class="LegAddition">(3A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A person shall not foster a child privately if—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-68-3A-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">he is barred from regulated activity relating to children (within the meaning of section 3(2) of the Safeguarding Vulnerable Groups Act 2006); or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-68-3A-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">he lives in the same household as a person who is barred from such activity.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-68-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where an authority refuse to give their consent under this section, they shall inform the applicant by a written notice which states—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-68-4-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the reason for the refusal;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-68-4-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the applicant’s right under paragraph 8 of Schedule 8 to appeal against the refusal; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-68-4-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the time within which he may do so.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-68-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In this section—</span> </p><ul class="LegTabbedDef LegUnorderedList"><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-the-appropriate-authority">the appropriate authority</span>” means the local authority within whose area it is proposed to foster the child in question; and
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-enactment">enactment</span>” means any enactment having effect, at any time, in any part of the United Kingdom.
</p></li></ul><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-69"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">69</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Power to prohibit private fostering.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-69-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">This section applies where a person—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-69-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">proposes to foster a child privately; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-69-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">is fostering a child privately.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-69-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where the local authority for the area within which the child is proposed to be, or is being, fostered are of the opinion that—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-69-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">he is not a suitable person to foster a child;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-69-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the premises in which the child will be, or is being, accommodated are not suitable; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-69-2-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">it would be prejudicial to the welfare of the child for him to be, or continue to be accommodated by that person in those premises,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">the authority may impose a prohibition on him under subsection (3).
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-69-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A prohibition imposed on any person under this subsection may prohibit him from fostering privately—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-69-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any child in any premises within the area of the local authority; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-69-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any child in premises specified in the prohibition.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-69-3-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">a child identified in the prohibition, in premises specified in the prohibition.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-69-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A local authority who have imposed a prohibition on any person under subsection (3) may, if they think fit, cancel the prohibition—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-69-4-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">of their own motion; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-69-4-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">on an application made by that person,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">if they are satisfied that the prohibition is no longer justified.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-69-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a local authority impose a requirement on any person under paragraph 6 of Schedule 8, they may also impose a prohibition on him under subsection (3).</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-69-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any prohibition imposed by virtue of subsection (5) shall not have effect unless—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-69-6-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the time specified for compliance with the requirement has expired; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-69-6-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the requirement has not been compiled with.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-69-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A prohibition imposed under this section shall be imposed by notice in writing addressed to the person on whom it is imposed and informing him of—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-69-7-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the reason for imposing the prohibition;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-69-7-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">his right under paragraph 8 of Schedule 8 to appeal against the prohibition; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-69-7-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the time within which he may do so.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-70"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">70</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Offences.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-70-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A person shall be guilty of an offence if—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-70-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">being required, under any provision made by or under this Part, to give any notice or information—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-70-1-a-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">he fails without reasonable excuse to give the notice within the time specified in that provision; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-70-1-a-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">he fails without reasonable excuse to give the information within a reasonable time; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-70-1-a-iii">(iii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">he makes, or causes or procures another person to make, any statement in the notice or information which he knows to be false or misleading in a material particular;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-70-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">he refuses to allow a privately fostered child to be visited by a duly authorised officer of a local authority;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-70-1-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">he intentionally obstructs another in the exercise of the power conferred by section 67(3);</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-70-1-d">(d)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">he contravenes section 68;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-70-1-e">(e)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">he fails without reasonable excuse to comply with any requirement imposed by a local authority under this Part;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-70-1-f">(f)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">he accommodates a privately fostered child in any premises in contravention of a prohibition imposed by a local authority under this Part;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-70-1-g">(g)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">he knowingly causes to be published, or publishes, an advertisement which he knows contravenes paragraph 10 of Schedule 8.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-70-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a person contravenes section 68(3), he shall not be guilty of an offence under this section if he proves that he did not know, and had no reasonable ground for believing, that any person to whom section 68(1) applied was living or employed in the premises in question.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-70-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A person guilty of an offence under subsection (1)(a) shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-70-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A person guilty of an offence under subsection (1)(b), (c) or (g) shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-70-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A person guilty of an offence under subsection (1)(d) or (f) shall be liable on summary conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale, or to both.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-70-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A person guilty of an offence under subsection (1)(e) shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 4 on the standard scale.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-70-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">If any person who is required, under any provision of this Part, to give a notice fails to give the notice within the time specified in that provision, proceedings for the offence may be brought at any time within six months from the date when evidence of the offence came to the knowledge of the local authority.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-70-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Subsection (7) is not affected by anything in section 127(1) of the Magistrates’ Courts Act 1980 (time limit for proceedings).</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="part-X"/><div class="LegClearPart"/><h2 class="LegPart"><span class="LegPartNo"> Part X<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span><span class="LegPartTitle"> Child Minding and Day Care for Young Children</span></h2><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-71"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">71</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-72"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">72</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-73"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">73</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-74"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">74</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-75"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">75</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-76"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">76</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-77"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">77</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-78"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">78</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-79"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">79</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="part-XA"/><div class="LegClearPart"/><h2 class="LegPart"><span class="LegPartNo"> <span class="LegAddition">Part XA</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span><span class="LegPartTitle"><span class="LegAddition"> Child Minding and Day Care for Children in </span><span class="LegAddition">. . . Wales</span></span></h2><h3 class="LegPblockFirst"><span class="LegPblockTitle"> Introductory<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-79A"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">79A</span>. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</h4><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-79B"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">79B</span>. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</h4><div class="LegClearPblock"/><h3 class="LegPblock"><span class="LegPblockTitle"> Regulations<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-79C"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">79C</span>. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</h4><div class="LegClearPblock"/><h3 class="LegPblock"><span class="LegPblockTitle"> Registration<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-79D"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">79D</span>. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</h4><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-79E"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">79E</span>. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</h4><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-79F"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">79F</span>. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</h4><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-79G"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">79G</span>. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</h4><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-79H"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">79H</span>. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</h4><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-79J"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">79J</span>. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</h4><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-79K"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">79K</span>. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</h4><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-79L"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">79L</span>. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</h4><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-79M"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">79M</span>. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</h4><div class="LegClearPblock"/><h3 class="LegPblock"><span class="LegPblockTitle">Inspection: England<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-79N"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">79N</span>. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</h4><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-79P"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">79P</span>. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</h4><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-79Q"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">79Q</span>. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</h4><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-79R"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">79R</span>. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</h4><div class="LegClearPblock"/><h3 class="LegPblock"><span class="LegPblockTitle"> Inspection: Wales<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-79S"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">79S</span>. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</h4><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-79T"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">79T</span>. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</h4><div class="LegClearPblock"/><h3 class="LegPblock"><span class="LegPblockTitle"> Supplementary<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-79U"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">79U</span>. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</h4><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-79V"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">79V</span>. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</h4><div class="LegClearPblock"/><h3 class="LegPblock"><span class="LegPblockTitle"> Checks on suitability of persons working with children over the age of seven<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-79W"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">79W</span>. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</h4><div class="LegClearPblock"/><h3 class="LegPblock"><span class="LegPblockTitle"> Time limit for proceedings<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-79X"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">79X</span>. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</h4><a class="LegAnchorID" id="part-XI"/><div class="LegClearPart"/><h2 class="LegPart"><span class="LegPartNo">Part XI<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England, Wales and Scotland"><span class="btr"/>E+W+S<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span><span class="LegPartTitle"> Secretary of State’s Supervisory Functions and Responsibilities</span></h2><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section--80-"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"> <span class="LegAddition"> 80 </span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst"> <span class="LegAddition"> Inspection of children’s homes </span><span class="LegAddition">etc.</span><span class="LegAddition"> by persons authorised by </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">the Appropriate National Authority</span></span><span class="LegAddition">. </span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-80-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Appropriate National Authority</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> may cause to be inspected from time to time any—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">private</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> children’s home </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">in England</span></span><span class="LegAddition">;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">premises in which a child who is being looked after by a local authority is living;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-1-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">premises in which a child who is being accommodated by or on behalf of a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">local authority in the exercise of education functions or a</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> voluntary organisation is living;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-1-d"><span class="LegAddition">(d)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"> premises in which a child who is being accommodated by or on behalf of a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution"> Local Health Board</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">, Special Health Authority</span></span> <span class="LegAddition">... </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">, National Health Service trust or </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">NHS</span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution"> foundation trust </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegAddition">or pursuant to arrangements made by the </span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Appropriate National Authority</span></span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegAddition">, </span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">NHS England</span></span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegAddition"> or </span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an integrated care board</span></span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegAddition"> under the National Health Service Act 2006</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"> is living; </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-1-e"><span class="LegAddition">(e)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"> . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-1-f"><span class="LegAddition">(f)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"> . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-1-g"><span class="LegAddition">(g)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">premises in which a privately fostered child, or child who is treated as a foster child by virtue of paragraph 9 of Schedule 8, is living or in which it is proposed that he will live;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-1-h"><span class="LegAddition">(h)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">premises on which any person is acting as a child minder;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-1-i"><span class="LegAddition">(i)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-1-j"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(j)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">care home </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">in England</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> or independent hospital used to accommodate children;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-1-k"><span class="LegAddition">(k)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">premises which are provided by a local authority and in which any service is provided by that authority under Part III;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-1-l"><span class="LegAddition">(l)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">school or college</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> providing accommodation for any child;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-80-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">An inspection under this section shall be conducted by a person authorised to do so by the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Appropriate National Authority</span></span><span class="LegAddition">.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-80-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">An officer of a local authority shall not be so authorised except with the consent of that authority.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-80-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Appropriate National Authority</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> may require any person of a kind mentioned in subsection (5) to furnish </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">it</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> with such information, or allow </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">it</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> to inspect such records (in whatever form they are held), relating to—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-4-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any premises to which subsection (1) or, in relation to Scotland, subsection (1)(h) or (i) applies;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-4-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">any child who is living in any such premises;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-4-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the discharge by the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Appropriate National Authority</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> of any of </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">its</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> functions under this Act; </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">or</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-4-d"><span class="LegAddition">(d)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the discharge by any local authority of any of their functions under this Act,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">as the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Appropriate National Authority</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> may at any time direct.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-80-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The persons are any—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-5-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">local authority;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-5-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">voluntary organisation;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-5-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">person carrying on a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">private</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> children’s home </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">in England</span></span><span class="LegAddition">;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-5-d"><span class="LegAddition">(d)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">proprietor of an independent school </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">or governing body of any other school</span></span><span class="LegAddition">;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-5-da"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(da)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> governing body of an institution designated under section 28 of the </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> Further and Higher Education Act 1992; </span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-5-db"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(db)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">further education corporation;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-5-dc"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(dc)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">sixth form college corporation;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-5-dd"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(dd)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">proprietor of a 16 to 19 Academy;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-5-e"><span class="LegAddition">(e)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"> person fostering any privately fostered child or providing accommodation for a child on behalf of a local authority, </span><span class="LegAddition">... </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution"> Local Health Board</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">, Special Health Authority</span></span> <span class="LegAddition">... </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> National Health Service trust</span></span> <span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">, </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">NHS</span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> foundation trust</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> or voluntary organisation; </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-5-ea"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(ea)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">person providing accommodation for a child pursuant to arrangements made by the Secretary of State, </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">NHS England</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> or </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an integrated care board</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> under the National Health Service Act 2006;</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-5-f"><span class="LegAddition">(f)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"> . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-5-g"><span class="LegAddition">(g)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"> person employed in a teaching or administrative capacity at any educational establishment (whether or not maintained by </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution"> a local authority</span></span><span class="LegAddition">) at which a child is accommodated on behalf of a local authority </span><span class="LegAddition"> . . . ; </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-5-h"><span class="LegAddition">(h)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-5-hh"><span class="LegAddition">(hh)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-5-i"><span class="LegAddition">(i)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">person carrying on any home of a kind mentioned in subsection (1)(j).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-5-j"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(j)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">person carrying on a fostering agency.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-80-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Any person inspecting any home or other premises under this section may—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-6-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">inspect the children there; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-6-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">make such examination into the state and management of the home or premises and the treatment of the children there as he thinks fit.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-80-7"><span class="LegAddition">(7)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Any person authorised by the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Appropriate National Authority</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> to exercise the power to inspect records conferred by subsection (4)—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-7-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">shall be entitled at any reasonable time to have access to, and inspect and check the operation of, any computer and any associated apparatus or material which is or has been in use in connection with the records in question; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-7-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">may require—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-80-7-b-i"><span class="LegAddition">(i)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">the person by whom or on whose behalf the computer is or has been so used; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-80-7-b-ii"><span class="LegAddition">(ii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">any person having charge of, or otherwise concerned with the operation of, the computer, apparatus or material,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">to afford him such reasonable assistance as he may require.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-80-8"><span class="LegAddition">(8)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A person authorised to inspect any premises under this section shall have a right to enter the premises for that purpose, and for any purpose specified in subsection (4), at any reasonable time.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-80-9"><span class="LegAddition">(9)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Any person exercising that power shall, if so required, produce some duly authenticated document showing his authority to do so.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-80-10"><span class="LegAddition">(10)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Any person who intentionally obstructs another in the exercise of that power shall be guilty of an offence and liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-80-11"><span class="LegAddition">(11)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Appropriate National Authority</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> may by order provide for subsections (1), (4) and (6) not to apply in relation to such homes, or other premises, as may be specified in the order.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-80-11A"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(11A)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">But subsections (1), (4) and (6) do not apply if—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-11A-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">the Appropriate National Authority is the Welsh Ministers; and</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-11A-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">the inspection relates to a private children’s home or a care home (see, instead the Regulation and Inspection of Social Care (Wales) Act 2016 (anaw 2)).</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-80-12"><span class="LegAddition">(12)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Without prejudice to section 104, any such order may make different provision with respect to each of those subsections.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-80-13"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(13)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">In this section—</span></span></span> </p><ul class="LegTabbedDef LegUnorderedList"><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> “</span></span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-college"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">college</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">” means an institution within the further education sector as defined in section 91 of the </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> Further and Higher Education Act 1992 </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> or a 16 to 19 Academy</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">; </span></span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> “</span></span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-fostering-agency"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">fostering agency</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">” has the same meaning as in the Care Standards Act 2000; </span></span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> “</span></span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-further-education-corporation"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">further education corporation</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">” has the same meaning as in the </span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> Further and Higher Education Act 1992. </span></span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> “</span></span></span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-sixth-form-college-corporation"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">sixth form college corporation</span></span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">” has the same meaning as in that Act.</span></span></span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> “</span></span></span><span class="LegTerm"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">proprietor</span></span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">” has the same meaning as in the Education Act 1996.</span></span></span> </p></li></ul><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-80-14"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(14)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">In this section “Appropriate National Authority” means—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-14-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">in relation to England, the Secretary of State; and</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-80-14-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">in relation to Wales, the Welsh Ministers.</span></span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-81"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">81</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Inquiries.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegRHS LegP1Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
</p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-82"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">82</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Financial support by Secretary of State.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-82-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The Secretary of State may (with the consent of the Treasury) defray or contribute towards—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-82-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any fees or expenses incurred by any person undergoing approved child care training;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-82-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any fees charged, or expenses incurred, by any person providing approved child care training or preparing material for use in connection with such training; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-82-1-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the cost of maintaining any person undergoing such training.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-82-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The Secretary of State may make grants to local authorities in respect of expenditure incurred by them in providing secure accommodation in community homes other than assisted community homes.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-82-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-82-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">a grant has been made under subsection (2) with respect to any secure accommodation; but</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-82-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the grant is not used for the purpose for which it was made or the accommodation is not used as, or ceases to be used as, secure accommodation,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">the Secretary of State may (with the consent of the Treasury) require the authority concerned to repay the grant, in whole or in part.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-82-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The Secretary of State may make grants to voluntary organisations towards—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-82-4-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">expenditure incurred by them in connection with the establishment, maintenance or improvement of voluntary homes which, at the time when the expenditure was incurred—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-82-4-a-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">were assisted community homes; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-82-4-a-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">were designated as such; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-82-4-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">expenses incurred in respect of the borrowing of money to defray any such expenditure.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-82-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The Secretary of State may arrange for the provision, equipment and maintenance of homes for the accommodation of children who are in need of particular facilities and services which—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-82-5-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">are or will be provided in those homes; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-82-5-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">in the opinion of the Secretary of State, are unlikely to be readily available in community homes.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-82-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In this Part—</span> </p><ul class="LegTabbedDef LegUnorderedList"><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-child-care-training">child care training</span>” means training undergone by any person with a view to, or in the course of—
</p></li></ul><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-82-6-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">his employment for the purposes of any of the functions mentioned in section 83(9) or in connection with the adoption of children or with the accommodation of children in a <span class="LegAddition">care home or independent hospital</span>; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-82-6-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">his employment by a voluntary organisation for similar purposes;</span> </p><ul class="LegTabbedDef LegUnorderedList"><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-approved-child-care-training">approved child care training</span>” means child care training which is approved by the Secretary of State; and
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-secure-accommodation">secure accommodation</span>” means accommodation provided for the purpose of restricting the liberty of children.
</p></li></ul><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-82-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any grant made under this section shall be of such amount, and shall be subject to such conditions, as the Secretary of State may (with the consent of the Treasury) determine.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-83"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">83</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Research and returns of information.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-83-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The Secretary of State may conduct, or assist other persons in conducting, research into any matter connected with—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-83-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">his functions, or the functions of local authorities, under the enactments mentioned in subsection (9);</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-83-1-aa"><span class="LegAddition">(aa)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the functions </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">of— </span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-83-1-i"><span class="LegSubstitution">(i)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">the Child Safeguarding Practice Review Panel;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-83-1-ii"><span class="LegSubstitution">(ii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">safeguarding partners (within the meaning given by section 16E(3) of the Children Act 2004) in relation to local authority areas in England;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-83-1-iii"><span class="LegSubstitution">(iii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">child death review partners (within the meaning given by section 16Q(2) of the Children Act 2004) in relation to local authority areas in England;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-83-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the adoption of children; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-83-1-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the accommodation of children in a <span class="LegAddition">care home or independent hospital</span>.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-83-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any local authority may conduct, or assist other persons in conducting, research into any matter connected with—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-83-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">their functions under the enactments mentioned in subsection (9);</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-83-2-aa">(aa)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-83-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the adoption of children; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-83-2-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the accommodation of children in a <span class="LegAddition">care home or independent hospital</span>.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-83-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Every local authority shall, at such times and in such form as the Secretary of State may direct, transmit to him such particulars as he may require with respect to—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-83-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the performance by the local authority of all or any of their functions—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-83-3-a-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">under the enactments mentioned in subsection (9); or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-83-3-a-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">in connection with the accommodation of children in a <span class="LegAddition">care home or independent hospital</span>; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-83-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the children in relation to whom the authority have exercised those functions.;...</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-83-3-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-83-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Every voluntary organisation shall, at such times and in such form as the Secretary of State may direct, transmit to him such particulars as he may require with respect to children accommodated by them or on their behalf.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-83-4A"><span class="LegAddition">(4A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Particulars required to be transmitted under subsection (3) or (4) may include particulars relating to and identifying individual children.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-83-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The Secretary of State may direct <span class="LegSubstitution">an officer of the family court</span> to transmit—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-83-5-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">to such person as may be specified in the direction; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-83-5-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">at such times and in such form as he may direct,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">such particulars as he may require with respect to proceedings of the court which relate to children.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-83-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The Secretary of State shall in each year lay before Parliament a consolidated and classified abstract of the information transmitted to him under subsections (3) to (5).</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-83-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The Secretary of State may institute research designed to provide information on which requests for information under this section may be based.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-83-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The Secretary of State shall keep under review the adequacy of the provision of child care training and for that purpose shall receive and consider any information from or representations made by—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-83-8-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the Central Council for Education and Training in Social Work;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-83-8-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">such representatives of local authorities as appear to him to be appropriate; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-83-8-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">such other persons or organisations as appear to him to be appropriate,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">concerning the provision of such training.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-83-9">(9)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The enactments are—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-83-9-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">this Act;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-83-9-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the Children and Young Persons Acts 1933 to 1969;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-83-9-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">section 116 of the Mental Health Act 1983 (so far as it relates to children looked after by local authorities);</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-83-9-ca"><span class="LegAddition">(ca)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">Part 1 of the Adoption and Children Act 2002;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-83-9-cb"><span class="LegAddition">(cb)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the Children Act 2004;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-83-9-cc"><span class="LegAddition">(cc)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the Children and Young Persons Act 2008.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-83-9-d">(d)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-84"/><h3 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">84</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Local authority failure to comply with statutory duty: default power of Secretary of State.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-84-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">If the Secretary of State is satisfied that any local authority has failed, without reasonable excuse, to comply with any of the duties imposed on them by or under this Act he may make an order declaring that authority to be in default with respect to that duty.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-84-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">An order under subsection (1) shall give the Secretary of State’s reasons for making it.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-84-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">An order under subsection (1) may contain such directions for the purpose of ensuring that the duty is complied with, within such period as may be specified in the order, as appear to the Secretary of State to be necessary.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-84-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any such direction shall, on the application of the Secretary of State, be enforceable by mandamus.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="part-XII"/><div class="LegClearPart"/><h2 class="LegPart"><span class="LegPartNo">Part XII<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to "><span class="btr"/>U.K.<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span><span class="LegPartTitle"> Miscellaneous and General</span></h2><h3 class="LegPblockFirst"><span class="LegPblockTitle"> Notification of children accommodated in certain establishments<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-85"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">85</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst"> Children accommodated by health authorities and local education authorities.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-85-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a child is provided with accommodation <span class="LegAddition">in England</span> by any <span class="LegAddition">..., Special Health Authority,</span> ... <span class="LegAddition">National Health Service trust</span> <span class="LegSubstitution">or </span><span class="LegSubstitution">NHS</span><span class="LegSubstitution"> foundation trust or by a local authority </span><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegAddition">in England</span></span><span class="LegSubstitution"> in the exercise of education functions</span> (“the accommodating authority”)—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-85-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">for a consecutive period of at least three months; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-85-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">with the intention, on the part of that authority, of accommodating him for such a period,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">the accommodating authority shall notify <span class="LegAddition">the appropriate officer of</span> the responsible authority.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-85-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where subsection (1) applies with respect to a child, the accommodating authority shall also notify <span class="LegAddition">the appropriate officer of</span> the responsible authority when they cease to accommodate the child.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-85-2ZA"><span class="LegAddition">(2ZA)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where a child is provided with accommodation—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-85-2ZA-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">by a body which is not mentioned in subsection (1), and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-85-2ZA-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">pursuant to arrangements made by the Secretary of State, </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">NHS England</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> or </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an integrated care board</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> under the National Health Service Act 2006,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">subsections (1) and (2) apply in relation to the Secretary of State, </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">NHS England</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> or (as the case may be) </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">the integrated care board</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> as if it were the accommodating authority.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-85-2A"><span class="LegAddition">(2A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">In a case where the child is </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">provided with accommodation in England by a local authority in England</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> in the exercise of education functions, subsections (1) and (2) apply only if the local authority providing the accommodation is different from the responsible authority.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-85-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In this section “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-the-responsible-authority">the responsible authority</span>” means—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-85-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the local authority appearing to the accommodating authority to be the authority within whose area the child was ordinarily resident immediately before being accommodated; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-85-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">where it appears to the accommodating authority that a child was not ordinarily resident within the area of any local authority, the local authority within whose area the accommodation is situated.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-85-3A"><span class="LegAddition">(3A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> In this section and sections 86 and 86A “ </span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-the-appropriate-officer"><span class="LegAddition">the appropriate officer</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ” means— </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-85-3A-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in relation to a local authority in England, their director of children's services; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-85-3A-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in relation to a local authority in Wales, their </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">director of social services</span></span><span class="LegAddition">.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-85-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where <span class="LegSubstitution">the appropriate officer of a</span> <span class="LegSubstitution">local authority in England has been notified under this section, or under section 120 of the Social Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014 (assessment of children accommodated by health authorities and education authorities)</span>, <span class="LegSubstitution">the local authority</span> shall—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-85-4-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">take such steps as are reasonably practicable to enable them to determine whether the child’s welfare is adequately safeguarded and promoted while he is accommodated by the accommodating authority; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-85-4-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">consider the extent to which (if at all) they should exercise any of their functions under this Act with respect to the child.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-85-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">For the purposes of subsection (4)(b), if the child is not in the area of the local authority, they must treat him as if he were in that area.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-86"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">86</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition"> Children accommodated in care homes or independent hospitals.</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-86-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a child is provided with accommodation <span class="LegAddition">in England</span> in any <span class="LegAddition">care home or independent hospital</span>—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-86-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">for a consecutive period of at least three months; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-86-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">with the intention, on the part of the person taking the decision to accommodate him, of accommodating him for such period,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">the person carrying on <span class="LegSubstitution">the establishment in question</span> shall notify <span class="LegAddition">the appropriate officer of</span> the local authority within whose area <span class="LegSubstitution">the establishment</span> is carried on.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-86-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where subsection (1) applies with respect to a child, the person carrying on <span class="LegSubstitution">the establishment</span> shall also notify <span class="LegAddition">the appropriate officer of</span> that authority when he ceases to accommodate the child in <span class="LegSubstitution">the establishment</span> .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-86-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where <span class="LegSubstitution">the appropriate officer of a local authority has</span> been notified under this section, <span class="LegSubstitution">the local authority</span> shall—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-86-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">take such steps as are reasonably practicable to enable them to determine whether the child’s welfare is adequately safeguarded and promoted while he is accommodated in <span class="LegSubstitution">the establishment in question</span> ; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-86-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">consider the extent to which (if at all) they should exercise any of their functions under this Act with respect to the child.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-86-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">If the person carrying on any <span class="LegSubstitution">care home or independent hospital</span> fails, without reasonable excuse, to comply with this section he shall be guilty of an offence.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-86-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A person authorised by a local authority <span class="LegAddition">in England</span> may enter any <span class="LegAddition">care home or independent hospital</span> within the authority’s area for the purpose of establishing whether the requirements of this section have been complied with.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-86-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any person who intentionally obstructs another in the exercise of the power of entry shall be guilty of an offence.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-86-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any person exercising the power of entry shall, if so required, produce some duly authenticated document showing his authority to do so.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-86-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any person committing an offence under this section shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-86A"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">86A</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Visitors for children notified to local authority </span><span class="LegAddition">...</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-86A-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">This section applies if the appropriate officer of a local authority </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">in England</span></span><span class="LegAddition">—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-86A-1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">has been notified with respect to a child under section 85(1) or 86(1) </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">“, or under section 120(2)(a) of the Social Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014</span></span><span class="LegAddition">; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-86A-1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">has not been notified with respect to that child under section 85(2) </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">, 86(2), or under section 120(2)(b) of the Social Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014, as the case may be</span></span><span class="LegAddition">.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-86A-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The local authority must, in accordance with regulations made under this section, make arrangements for the child to be visited by a representative of the authority (“a representative”).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-86A-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">It is the function of a representative to provide advice and assistance to the local authority on the performance of their duties under section 85(4) or, as the case may be, 86(3).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-86A-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Regulations under this section may make provision about—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-86A-4-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the frequency of visits under visiting arrangements;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-86A-4-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">circumstances in which visiting arrangements must require a child to be visited; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-86A-4-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">additional functions of a representative.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-86A-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Regulations under this section are to be made by the Secretary of State </span><span class="LegAddition">...</span><span class="LegAddition">.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-86A-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">In choosing a representative a local authority must satisfy themselves that the person chosen has the necessary skills and experience to perform the functions of a representative.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-86A-7"><span class="LegAddition">(7)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> In this section “ </span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-visiting-arrangements"><span class="LegAddition">visiting arrangements</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ” means arrangements made under subsection (2). </span> </span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-87"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">87</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Welfare of children in boarding schools and colleges.</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where a school or college provides accommodation for any child, it shall be the duty of the relevant person to safeguard and promote the child’s welfare.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87-1A"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(1A)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">For the purposes of this section and sections 87A to 87D, a school or college provides accommodation for a child if—</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87-1A-a"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">it provides accommodation for the child on its own premises, or</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87-1A-b"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">it arranges for accommodation for the child to be provided elsewhere (other than in connection with a residential trip away from the school).</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Subsection (1) does not apply in relation to a school or college which is a children’s home or care home.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where accommodation is provided for a child by any school or college the appropriate authority shall take such steps as are reasonably practicable to enable them to determine whether the child’s welfare is adequately safeguarded and promoted while </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">accommodation for the child is provided</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> by the school or college.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87-3A"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(3A)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">Where accommodation is provided for a child by a school or college in England, the Secretary of State may at any time (including a time when the duty under subsection (3) is suspended by virtue of section 87A) direct the Chief Inspector for England to take the steps referred to in subsection (3).</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87-3B"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(3B)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">Where accommodation is provided for a child by a school or college in Wales, the Welsh Ministers may, at any time when the duty under subsection (3) is suspended by virtue of section 87A, take the steps referred to in subsection (3).</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">the Chief Inspector for England is</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> of the opinion that there has been a failure to comply with subsection (1) in relation to a child provided with accommodation by a school or </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">college in England, he shall</span></span><span class="LegAddition">—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87-4-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in the case of a school other than an independent school </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">, an alternative provision Academy that is not an independent school</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> or a special school, notify the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">local authority</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> for the area in which the school is situated;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87-4-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in the case of a special school which is maintained by a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">local authority</span></span><span class="LegAddition">, notify that authority;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87-4-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in any other case, notify the Secretary of State.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87-4A"><span class="LegAddition">(4A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where the National Assembly for Wales are of the opinion that there has been a failure to comply with subsection (1) in relation to a child provided with accommodation by a school or college </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">in Wales</span></span><span class="LegAddition">, they shall—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87-4A-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in the case of a school other than an independent school or a special school, notify the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">local authority</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> for the area in which the school is situated;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87-4A-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in the case of a special school which is maintained by a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">local authority</span></span><span class="LegAddition">, notify that authority.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where accommodation is, or is to be, provided for a child by any school or college, a person authorised by the appropriate authority may, for the purpose of enabling that authority to discharge </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">any of its functions</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> under this section, enter at any time premises which are, or are to be, premises of the school or college.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any person <span class="LegAddition">exercising</span> the power conferred by subsection (5) may carry out such inspection of premises, children and records as is prescribed by regulations made by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this section.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any person exercising that power shall, if asked to do so, produce some duly authenticated document showing his authority to do so.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any person authorised by the regulations to inspect records—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87-8-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">shall be entitled at any reasonable time to have access to, and inspect and check the operation of, any computer and any associated apparatus or material which is or has been in use in connection with the records in question; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87-8-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">may require—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-87-8-b-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">the person by whom or on whose behalf the computer is or has been so used; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-87-8-b-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">any person having charge of, or otherwise concerned with the operation of, the computer, apparatus or material,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP3Text">to afford him such assistance as he may reasonably require.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87-9">(9)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any person who intentionally obstructs another in the exercise of any power conferred by this section or the regulations shall be guilty of an offence and liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87-9A"><span class="LegAddition">(9A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">the Chief Inspector for England</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> or the National Assembly for Wales exercises the power conferred by subsection (5) in relation to a child, </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">that authority must</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> publish a report on whether the child’s welfare is adequately safeguarded and promoted while </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">accommodation for the child is provided</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> by the school or college.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87-9B"><span class="LegAddition">(9B)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">the Chief Inspector for England</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> or the National Assembly for Wales publishes a report under this section, it must—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87-9B-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">send a copy of the report to the school or college concerned; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87-9B-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">make copies of the report available for inspection at its offices by any person at any reasonable time.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87-9C"><span class="LegAddition">(9C)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Any person who requests a copy of a report published under this section is entitled to have one on payment of such reasonable fee (if any) as </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">the Chief Inspector for England</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> or the National Assembly for Wales (as the case may be) considers appropriate.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87-10"><span class="LegAddition">(10)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">In this section and sections 87A to 87D—</span></span> </p><ul class="LegTabbedDef LegUnorderedList"><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"> “ </span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-the-1992-act"><span class="LegAddition">the 1992 Act</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ” means the </span><span class="LegAddition"> Further and Higher Education Act 1992; </span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"> “ </span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-appropriate-authority"><span class="LegAddition">appropriate authority</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ” means— </span> </p><div><div class="LegAlphaList"><div class="LegListItem"><div class="LegLevel4No LegListItemNo">(a)</div><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel4"><span class="LegAddition">in relation to England, </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">the Chief Inspector for England</span></span><span class="LegAddition">;</span> </p></div><div class="LegListItem"><div class="LegLevel4No LegListItemNo">(b)</div><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel4"><span class="LegAddition">in relation to Wales, the National Assembly for Wales;</span> </p></div></div></div></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">“ </span></span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-the-chief-inspector-for-england"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">the Chief Inspector for England</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> ” means Her Majesty's Chief Inspector of Education, Children's Services and Skills;</span></span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"> “ </span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-college"><span class="LegAddition">college</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ” means an institution within the further education sector as defined in section 91 of the 1992 Act </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> or a 16 to 19 Academy </span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ; </span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"> . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . </span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"> “ </span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-further-education-corporation"><span class="LegAddition">further education corporation</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ” has the same meaning as in the 1992 Act; </span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">local authority</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> and “</span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-proprietor"><span class="LegAddition">proprietor</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” have the same meanings as in the </span><span class="LegAddition"> Education Act 1996 </span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">“</span></span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-sixth-form-college-corporation"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">sixth form college corporation</span></span></span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">” has the same meaning as in the 1992 Act.</span></span> </p></li></ul><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87-11"><span class="LegAddition">(11)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"> In this section and sections 87A and 87D “ </span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-relevant-person"><span class="LegAddition">relevant person</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ” means— </span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87-11-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in relation to an independent school </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">or an alternative provision Academy that is not an independent school</span></span><span class="LegAddition">, the proprietor of the school;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87-11-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in relation to any other school, or an institution designated under section 28 of the 1992 Act, the governing body of the school or institution;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87-11-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in relation to an institution conducted by a further education corporation </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">or sixth form college corporation</span></span><span class="LegAddition">, the corporation.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87-11-d"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(d)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">in relation to a 16 to 19 Academy, the proprietor of the Academy.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87-12"><span class="LegAddition">(12)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where a person other than the proprietor of an independent school </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> or an alternative provision Academy that is not an independent school</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> is responsible for conducting the school, references in this section to the relevant person include references to the person so responsible.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section--87A-"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"> <span class="LegAddition"> 87A </span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition"> Suspension of duty under section 87(3).</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87A-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The Secretary of State may appoint a person to be an inspector for the purposes of this section if—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87A-1-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">that person already acts as an inspector for other purposes in relation to schools or colleges to which section 87(1) applies, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87A-1-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the Secretary of State is satisfied that the person is an appropriate person to determine whether the welfare of children provided with accommodation by such schools or colleges is adequately safeguarded and promoted while </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">accommodation for the children is provided</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> by them.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87A-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87A-2-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the relevant person enters into an agreement in writing with a person appointed under subsection (1),</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87A-2-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the agreement provides for the person so appointed to have in relation to the school or college the function of determining whether section 87(1) is being complied with, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87A-2-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the appropriate authority receive from the person mentioned in paragraph (b) (“the inspector”) notice in writing that the agreement has come into effect,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">the appropriate authority’s duty under section 87(3) in relation to the school or college shall be suspended.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87A-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where the appropriate authority’s duty under section 87(3) in relation to any school or college is suspended under this section, it shall cease to be so suspended if the appropriate authority receive—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87A-3-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a notice under subsection (4) relating to the inspector, or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87A-3-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a notice under subsection (5) relating to the relevant agreement.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87A-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The Secretary of State shall terminate a person’s appointment under subsection (1) if—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87A-4-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">that person so requests, or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87A-4-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the Secretary of State ceases, in relation to that person, to be satisfied that he is such a person as is mentioned in paragraph (b) of that subsection,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">and shall give notice of the termination of that person’s appointment to the appropriate authority.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87A-4A"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(4A)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">The Secretary of State may by regulations specify matters that must be taken into account in deciding whether to appoint a person to be an inspector for the purposes of this section in relation to schools or colleges in England, or to terminate the appointment of such a person under subsection (4)(b).</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87A-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87A-5-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the appropriate authority’s duty under section 87(3) in relation to any school or college is suspended under this section, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87A-5-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the relevant agreement ceases to have effect,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">the inspector shall give to the appropriate authority notice in writing of the fact that it has ceased to have effect.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87A-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">In this section references to the relevant agreement, in relation to the suspension of the appropriate authority’s duty under section 87(3) as regards any school or college, are to the agreement by virtue of which the appropriate authority’s duty under that provision as regards that school or college is suspended.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section--87B-"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">  <span class="LegAddition"> 87B </span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition"> Duties of inspectors under section 87A.</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87B-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The Secretary of State may impose on a person appointed under section 87A(1) (“an authorised inspector”) such requirements relating to, or in connection with, the carrying out under substitution agreements of the function mentioned in section 87A(2)(b) as the Secretary of State thinks fit.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87B-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where, in the course of carrying out under a substitution agreement the function mentioned in section 87A(2)(b), it appears to an authorised inspector that there has been a failure to comply with section 87(1) in the case of a child provided with accommodation by the school </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">or college</span></span> to which the agreement relates, the inspector shall give notice of that fact</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87B-2-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in the case of a school other than an independent school </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">, an alternative provision Academy that is not an independent school</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> or a special school, to the </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">local authority</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> for the area in which the school is situated;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87B-2-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in the case of a special school which is maintained by a </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">local authority</span></span><span class="LegAddition">, to that authority;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87B-2-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in any other case, to the Secretary of State</span>.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87B-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where, in the course of carrying out under a substitution agreement the function mentioned in section 87A(2)(b), it appears to an authorised inspector that a child provided with accommodation by the school <span class="LegAddition">or college</span> to which the agreement relates is suffering, or is likely to suffer, significant harm, the inspector shall—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87B-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">give notice of that fact to the local authority in whose area the school <span class="LegAddition">or college</span> is situated, and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87B-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">where the inspector is required to make inspection reports to the Secretary of State, supply that local authority with a copy of the latest inspection report to have been made by the inspector to the Secretary of State in relation to the school <span class="LegAddition">or college</span>.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87B-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">In this section “substitution agreement” means an agreement by virtue of which the duty of the appropriate authority under section 87(3) in relation to a school or college is suspended.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-87BA"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">87BA</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Quality assurance of inspectors under section 87A</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87BA-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The Chief Inspector for England must, at intervals of no more than a year, prepare and send to the Secretary of State a report about inspectors who are appointed under section 87A in relation to schools or colleges in England.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87BA-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">In preparing a report under this section the Chief Inspector for England must have regard to such matters as the Secretary of State may direct.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87BA-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The Secretary of State may in particular give directions about—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87BA-3-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">matters to be taken into account in preparing a report, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87BA-3-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the form and contents of a report.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section--87C-"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"> <span class="LegAddition"> 87C </span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition"> Boarding schools: national minimum standards.</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87C-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The Secretary of State may prepare and publish statements of national minimum standards for safeguarding and promoting the welfare of children for whom accommodation is provided </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">by</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> a school or college.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87C-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The Secretary of State shall keep the standards set out in the statements under review and may publish amended statements whenever he considers it appropriate to do so.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87C-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Before issuing a statement, or an amended statement which in the opinion of the Secretary of State effects a substantial change in the standards, the Secretary of State shall consult any persons he considers appropriate.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87C-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The standards shall be taken into account—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87C-4-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in the making by the appropriate authority of any determination under section 87(4) or (4A);</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87C-4-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in the making by a person appointed under section 87A(1) of any determination under section 87B(2); and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-87C-4-c"><span class="LegAddition">(c)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in any proceedings under any other enactment in which it is alleged that the person has failed to comply with section 87(1).</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section--87D-"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"> <span class="LegAddition"> 87D </span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition"> Annual fee for boarding school inspections.</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87D-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Regulations under subsection (2) may be made in relation to any school or college in respect of which the appropriate authority is required to take steps under section 87(3).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87D-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The Secretary of State may by regulations require the relevant person to pay the appropriate authority an annual fee of such amount, and within such time, as the regulations may specify.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-87D-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A fee payable by virtue of this section may, without prejudice to any other method of recovery, be recovered summarily as a civil debt.</span></span> </p><div class="LegClearPblock"/><h3 class="LegPblock"><span class="LegPblockTitle"> Adoption<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England, Wales and Scotland"><span class="btr"/>E+W+S<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-88"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">88</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst"> Amendments of adoption legislation.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England, Wales and Scotland"><span class="btr"/>E+W+S<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-88-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-88-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><div class="LegClearPblock"/><h3 class="LegPblock"><span class="LegPblockTitle"> Paternity tests<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-89"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">89</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><div class="LegClearPblock"/><h3 class="LegPblock"><span class="LegPblockTitle"> Criminal care and supervision orders<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-90"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">90</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst"> Care and supervision orders in criminal proceedings.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-90-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The power of a court to make an order under subsection (2) of section 1 of the Children and Young Persons Act 1969 (care proceedings in <span class="LegAddition"> youth courts</span>) where it is of the opinion that the condition mentioned in paragraph (f) of that subsection (“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-the-offence-condition">the offence condition</span>”) is satisfied is hereby abolished.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-90-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The powers of the court to make care orders—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-90-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">under section 7(7)(a) of the Children and Young Persons Act 1969 (alteration in treatment of young offenders etc.); and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-90-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">under section 15(1) of that Act, on discharging a supervision order made under section 7(7)(b) of that Act,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"> are hereby abolished.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-90-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The powers given by that Act to include requirements in supervision orders shall have effect subject to amendments made by Schedule 12.</span> </p><div class="LegClearPblock"/><h3 class="LegPblock"><span class="LegPblockTitle"> Effect and duration of orders etc.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-91"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">91</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst"> Effect and duration of orders etc.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-91-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The making of a <span class="LegSubstitution">child arrangements order with respect to the living arrangements of </span> a child who is the subject of a care order discharges the care order.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-91-1A"><span class="LegAddition">(1A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">For the purposes of subsection (1), a child arrangements order is one made with respect to the living arrangements of a child if the arrangements regulated by the order consist of, or include, arrangements which relate to either or both of the following—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-91-1A-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">with whom the child is to live, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-91-1A-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">when the child is to live with any person.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-91-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The making of a care order with respect to a child who is the subject of any section 8 order discharges that order.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-91-2A"><span class="LegAddition">(2A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">an</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> activity direction has been made </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">with respect to</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> a child, the making of a care order with respect to the child discharges the direction.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-91-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The making of a care order with respect to a child who is the subject of a supervision order discharges that other order.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-91-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The making of a care order with respect to a child who is a ward of court brings that wardship to an end.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-91-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The making of a care order with respect to a child who is the subject of a school attendance order made under <span class="LegAddition">section 437 of the Education Act 1996</span> discharges the school attendance order.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-91-5A"><span class="LegAddition">(5A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The making of a special guardianship order with respect to a child who is the subject of—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-91-5A-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">a care order; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-91-5A-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">an order under section 34,</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">discharges that order.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-91-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where an emergency protection order is made with respect to a child who is in care, the care order shall have effect subject to the emergency protection order.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-91-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any order made under section 4(1) <span class="LegAddition">4ZA(1),</span><span class="LegAddition">4A(1)</span> or 5(1) shall continue in force until the child reaches the age of eighteen, unless it is brought to an end earlier.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-91-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-91-8-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">agreement under section 4 <span class="LegAddition">, 4ZA</span> <span class="LegAddition">or 4A</span>; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-91-8-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">appointment under section 5(3) or (4),</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">shall continue in force until the child reaches the age of eighteen, unless it is brought to an end earlier.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-91-9">(9)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">An order under Schedule 1 has effect as specified in that Schedule.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-91-10">(10)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A section 8 order ... shall, if it would otherwise still be in force, cease to have effect when the child reaches the age of sixteen, unless it is to have effect beyond that age by virtue of section 9(6). . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-91-10A"><span class="LegAddition">(10A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Subsection (10) does not apply to provision in a child arrangements order which regulates arrangements relating to—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-91-10A-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">with whom a child is to live, or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-91-10A-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">when a child is to live with any person.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-91-11">(11)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a section 8 order has effect with respect to a child who has reached the age of sixteen, it shall, if it would otherwise still be in force, cease to have effect when he reaches the age of eighteen.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-91-12">(12)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any care order, other than an interim care order, shall continue in force until the child reaches the age of eighteen, unless it is brought to an end earlier.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-91-13">(13)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any order made under any other provision of this Act in relation to a child shall, if it would otherwise still be in force, cease to have effect when he reaches the age of eighteen.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-91-14">(14)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">On disposing of any application for an order under this Act, the court may (whether or not it makes any other order in response to the application) order that no application for an order under this Act of any specified kind may be made with respect to the child concerned by any person named in the order without leave of the court.</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">For further provision about orders under this subsection, see section 91A (section 91(14) orders: further provision).</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-91-15">(15)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where an application (“the previous application”) has been made for—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-91-15-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the discharge of a care order;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-91-15-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the discharge of a supervision order;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-91-15-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the discharge of an education supervision order;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-91-15-d">(d)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the substitution of a supervision order for a care order; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-91-15-e">(e)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">a child assessment order,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">no further application of a kind mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (e) may be made with respect to the child concerned, without leave of the court, unless the period between the disposal of the previous application and the making of the further application exceeds six months.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-91-16">(16)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Subsection (15) does not apply to applications made in relation to interim orders.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-91-17">(17)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-91-17-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">a person has made an application for an order under section 34;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-91-17-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the application has been refused; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-91-17-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">a period of less than six months has elapsed since the refusal,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">that person may not make a further application for such an order with respect to the same child, unless he has obtained the leave of the court.
</p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-91A"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegAddition">91A</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegAddition">Section 91(14) orders: further provision</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-91A-1"><span class="LegAddition">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">This section makes further provision about orders under section 91(14) (referred to in this section as “</span><span class="LegTerm"><span class="LegAddition">section 91(14) orders</span></span><span class="LegAddition">”).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-91A-2"><span class="LegAddition">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The circumstances in which the court may make a section 91(14) order include, among others, where the court is satisfied that the making of an application for an order under this Act of a specified kind by any person who is to be named in the section 91(14) order would put—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-91A-2-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">the child concerned, or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-91A-2-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">another individual (“the relevant individual”),</span></span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">at risk of harm.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-91A-3"><span class="LegAddition">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">In the case of a child or other individual who has reached the age of eighteen, the reference in subsection (2) to “harm” is to be read as a reference to ill-treatment or the impairment of physical or mental health.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-91A-4"><span class="LegAddition">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Where a person who is named in a section 91(14) order applies for leave to make an application of a specified kind, the court must, in determining whether to grant leave, consider whether there has been a material change of circumstances since the order was made.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-91A-5"><span class="LegAddition">(5)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">A section 91(14) order may be made by the court—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-91A-5-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">on an application made—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-91A-5-a-i"><span class="LegAddition">(i)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">by the relevant individual;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-91A-5-a-ii"><span class="LegAddition">(ii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">by or on behalf of the child concerned;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-91A-5-a-iii"><span class="LegAddition">(iii)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text"><span class="LegAddition">by any other person who is a party to the application being disposed of by the court;</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-91A-5-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">of its own motion.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-91A-6"><span class="LegAddition">(6)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">In this section, “</span><span class="LegTerm"><span class="LegAddition">the child concerned</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” means the child referred to in section 91(14).</span></span> </p><div class="LegClearPblock"/><h3 class="LegPblock"><span class="LegPblockTitle"> Jurisdiction and procedure etc.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England, Wales and Northern Ireland"><span class="btr"/>E+W+N.I.<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-92"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">92</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst"> Jurisdiction of courts.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-92-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-92-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-92-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-92-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-92-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-92-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-92-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">For the purposes of this Act “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-the-court">the court</span>” <span class="LegSubstitution">the High Court or the family court </span>.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-92-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Subsection (7) is subject to ... any express provision as to the jurisdiction of any court made by any other provision of this Act.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-92-9">(9)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-92-10">(10)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-92-10A">(10A)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-92-11">(11)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Part II of Schedule 11 makes amendments consequential on this section.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-93"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">93</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Rules of court.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-93-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">An authority having power to make rules of court may make such provision for giving effect to—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-93-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">this Act;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-93-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the provisions of any statutory instrument made under this Act; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-93-1-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any amendment made by this Act in any other enactment,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">as appears to that authority to be necessary or expedient.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-93-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The rules may, in particular, make provision—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-93-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">with respect to the procedure to be followed in any relevant proceedings (including the manner in which any application is to be made or other proceedings commenced);</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-93-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">as to the persons entitled to participate in any relevant proceedings, whether as parties to the proceedings or by being given the opportunity to make representations to the court;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-93-2-bb"><span class="LegAddition">(bb)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">for children to be separately represented in relevant proceedings,</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-93-2-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">with respect to the documents and information to be furnished, and notices to be given, in connection with any relevant proceedings;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-93-2-d">(d)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-93-2-e">(e)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">with respect to preliminary hearings;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-93-2-f">(f)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-93-2-g">(g)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-93-2-h">(h)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">enabling the court, in such circumstances as may be prescribed, to proceed on any application even though the respondent has not been given notice of the proceedings;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-93-2-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-93-2-j">(j)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-93-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In subsection (2)—</span> </p><ul class="LegTabbedDef LegUnorderedList"><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-notice-of-proceedings">notice of proceedings</span>” means a summons or such other notice of proceedings as is required; and “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-given">given</span>”, in relation to a summons, means “served”;
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-prescribed">prescribed</span>” means prescribed by the rules; and
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-relevant-proceedings">relevant proceedings</span>” means any application made, or proceedings brought, under any of the provisions mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (c) of subsection (1) and any part of such proceedings.
</p></li></ul><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-93-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">This section and any other power in this Act to make rules of court are not to be taken as in any way limiting any other power of the authority in question to make rules of court.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-93-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">When making any rules under this section an authority shall be subject to the same requirements as to consultation (if any) as apply when the authority makes rules under its general rule making power.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-94"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">94</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Appeals.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegRHS LegP1Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
</p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-95"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">95</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Attendance of child at hearing under Part IV or V.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-95-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In any proceedings in which a court is hearing an application for an order under Part IV or V, or is considering whether to make any such order, the court may order the child concerned to attend such stage or stages of the proceedings as may be specified in the order.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-95-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The power conferred by subsection (1) shall be exercised in accordance with rules of court.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-95-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Subsections (4) to (6) apply where—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-95-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">an order under subsection (1) has not been complied with; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-95-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the court has reasonable cause to believe that it will not be complied with.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-95-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The court may make an order authorising a constable, or such person as may be specified in the order—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-95-4-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">to take charge of the child and to bring him to the court; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-95-4-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">to enter and search any premises specified in the order if he has reasonable cause to believe that the child may be found on the premises.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-95-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The court may order any person who is in a position to do so to bring the child to the court.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-95-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where the court has reason to believe that a person has information about the whereabouts of the child it may order him to disclose it to the court.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-96"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">96</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Evidence given by, or with respect to, children.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-96-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Subsection (2) applies where a child who is called as a witness in any civil proceedings does not, in the opinion of the court, understand the nature of an oath.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-96-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The child’s evidence may be heard by the court if, in its opinion—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-96-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">he understands that it is his duty to speak the truth; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-96-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">he has sufficient understanding to justify his evidence being heard.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-96-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The Lord Chancellor may <span class="LegAddition">, with the concurrence of the Lord Chief Justice,</span> by order make provision for the admissibility of evidence which would otherwise be inadmissible under any rule of law relating to hearsay.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-96-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">An order under subsection (3) may only be made with respect to—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-96-4-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">civil proceedings in general or such civil proceedings, or class of civil proceedings, as may be prescribed; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-96-4-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">evidence in connection with the upbringing, maintenance or welfare of a child.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-96-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">An order under subsection (3)—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-96-5-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">may, in particular, provide for the admissibility of statements which are made orally or in a prescribed form or which are recorded by any prescribed method of recording;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-96-5-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">may make different provision for different purposes and in relation to different descriptions of court; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-96-5-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">may make such amendments and repeals in any enactment relating to evidence (other than in this Act) as the Lord Chancellor considers necessary or expedient in consequence of the provision made by the order.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-96-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Subsection (5)(b) is without prejudice to section 104(4).</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-96-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In this section—</span> </p><ul class="LegTabbedDef LegUnorderedList"><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"> “ </span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-civil-proceedings"><span class="LegAddition">civil proceedings</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ” means civil proceedings, before any tribunal, in relation to which the strict rules of evidence apply, whether as a matter of law or by agreement of the parties, and references to “ </span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-the-court"><span class="LegAddition">the court</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> ” shall be construed accordingly; </span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-prescribed">prescribed</span>” means prescribed by an order under subsection (3).
</p></li></ul><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-97"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">97</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Privacy for children involved in certain proceedings.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-97-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-97-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">No person shall publish <span class="LegAddition">to the public at large or any section of the public</span> any material which is intended, or likely, to identify—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-97-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any child as being involved in any proceedings before <span class="LegAddition">the High Court</span><span class="LegSubstitution"> or the family court</span> in which any power under this Act <span class="LegAddition">or the Adoption and Children Act 2002</span> may be exercised by the court with respect to that or any other child; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-97-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">an address or school as being that of a child involved in any such proceedings.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-97-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In any proceedings for an offence under this section it shall be a defence for the accused to prove that he did not know, and had no reason to suspect, that the published material was intended, or likely, to identify the child.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-97-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The court or the <span class="LegAddition">Lord Chancellor</span> may, if satisfied that the welfare of the child requires it <span class="LegAddition">and, in the case of the Lord Chancellor, if the Lord Chief Justice agrees</span> , by order dispense with the requirements of subsection (2) to such extent as may be specified in the order.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-97-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">For the purposes of this section—</span> </p><ul class="LegTabbedDef LegUnorderedList"><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-publish">publish</span>” includes—
</p><div><div class="LegAlphaList"><div class="LegListItem"><div class="LegLevel4No LegListItemNo">(a)</div><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel4"><span class="LegAddition">include in a programme service (within the meaning of the Broadcasting Act 1990);</span> </p></div><div class="LegListItem"><div class="LegLevel4No LegListItemNo">(b)</div><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel4">cause to be published; and
</p></div></div></div></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-material">material</span>” includes any picture or representation.
</p></li></ul><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-97-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any person who contravenes this section shall be guilty of an offence and liable, on summary conviction, to a fine not exceeding level 4 on the standard scale.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-97-6A"><span class="LegAddition">(6A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">It is not a contravention of this section to—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-97-6A-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">enter material in the Adoption and Children Act Register (established under section 125 of the Adoption and Children Act 2002), or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-97-6A-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">permit persons to search and inspect that register pursuant to regulations made under section 128A of that Act.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-97-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-97-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-97-9"><span class="LegAddition">(9)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The Lord Chief Justice may nominate a judicial office holder (as defined in section 109(4) of the Constitutional Reform Act 2005) to exercise his functions under subsection (4).</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-98"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">98</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Self-incrimination.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-98-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In any proceedings in which a court is hearing an application for an order under Part IV or V, no person shall be excused from—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-98-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">giving evidence on any matter; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-98-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">answering any question put to him in the course of his giving evidence,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">on the ground that doing so might incriminate him or his spouse <span class="LegAddition">or civil partner</span> of an offence.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-98-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A statement or admission made in such proceedings shall not be admissible in evidence against the person making it or his spouse <span class="LegAddition">or civil partner</span> in proceedings for an offence other than perjury.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-99"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">99</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> .<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-99-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-99-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-99-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-99-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-99-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-100"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">100</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Restrictions on use of wardship jurisdiction.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-100-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Section 7 of the Family Law Reform Act 1969 (which gives the High Court power to place a ward of court in the care, or under the supervision, of a local authority) shall cease to have effect.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-100-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">No court shall exercise the High Court’s inherent jurisdiction with respect to children—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-100-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">so as to require a child to be placed in the care, or put under the supervision, of a local authority;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-100-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">so as to require a child to be accommodated by or on behalf of a local authority;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-100-2-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">so as to make a child who is the subject of a care order a ward of court; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-100-2-d">(d)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">for the purpose of conferring on any local authority power to determine any question which has arisen, or which may arise, in connection with any aspect of parental responsibility for a child.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-100-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">No application for any exercise of the court’s inherent jurisdiction with respect to children may be made by a local authority unless the authority have obtained the leave of the court.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-100-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The court may only grant leave if it is satisfied that—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-100-4-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the result which the authority wish to achieve could not be achieved through the making of any order of a kind to which subsection (5) applies; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-100-4-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">there is reasonable cause to believe that if the court’s inherent jurisdiction is not exercised with respect to the child he is likely to suffer significant harm.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-100-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">This subsection applies to any order—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-100-5-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">made otherwise than in the exercise of the court’s inherent jurisdiction; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-100-5-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">which the local authority is entitled to apply for (assuming, in the case of any application which may only be made with leave, that leave is granted).</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-101"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">101</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Effect of orders as between England and Wales and Northern Ireland, the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England, Wales and Northern Ireland"><span class="btr"/>E+W+N.I.<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-101-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The Secretary of State may make regulations providing—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-101-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">for prescribed orders which—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-101-1-a-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">are made by a court in Northern Ireland; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-101-1-a-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">appear to the Secretary of State to correspond in their effect to orders which may be made under any provision of this Act,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP3Text">to have effect in prescribed circumstances, for prescribed purposes of this Act, as if they were orders of a prescribed kind made under this Act;
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-101-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">for prescribed orders which—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-101-1-b-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">are made by a court in England and Wales; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-101-1-b-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">appear to the Secretary of State to correspond in their effect to orders which may be made under any provision in force in Northern Ireland,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP3Text">to have effect in prescribed circumstances, for prescribed purposes of the law of Northern Ireland, as if they were orders of a prescribed kind made in Northern Ireland.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-101-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Regulations under subsection (1) may provide for the order concerned to cease to have effect for the purposes of the law of Northern Ireland, or (as the case may be) the law of England and Wales, if prescribed conditions are satisfied.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-101-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The Secretary of State may make regulations providing for prescribed orders which—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-101-3-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">are made by a court in the Isle of Man or in any of the Channel Islands; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-101-3-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">appear to the Secretary of State to correspond in their effect to orders which may be made under this Act,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">to have effect in prescribed circumstances for prescribed purposes of this Act, as if they were orders of a prescribed kind made under this Act.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-101-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where a child who is in the care of a local authority is lawfully taken to live in Northern Ireland, the Isle of Man or any of the Channel Islands, the care order in question shall cease to have effect if the conditions prescribed in regulations made by the Secretary of State are satisfied.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-101-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any regulations made under this section may—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-101-5-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">make such consequential amendments (including repeals) in—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-101-5-a-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">section 25 of the Children and Young Persons Act 1969 (transfers between England and Wales and Northern Ireland); or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-101-5-a-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">section 26 (transfers between England and Wales and Channel Islands or Isle of Man) of that Act,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP3Text">as the Secretary of State considers necessary or expedient; and
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-101-5-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">modify any provision of this Act, in its application (by virtue of the regulations) in relation to an order made otherwise than in England and Wales.</span> </p><div class="LegClearPblock"/><h3 class="LegPblock"><span class="LegPblockTitle"> Search warrants<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-102"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">102</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst"> Power of constable to assist in exercise of certain powers to search for children or inspect premises.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-102-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where, on an application made by any person for a warrant under this section, it appears to the court—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-102-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">that a person attempting to exercise powers under any enactment mentioned in subsection (6) has been prevented from doing so by being refused entry to the premises concerned or refused access to the child concerned; or</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-102-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">that any such person is likely to be so prevented from exercising any such powers,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">it may issue a warrant authorising any constable to assist that person in the exercise of those powers, using reasonable force if necessary.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-102-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Every warrant issued under this section shall be addressed to, and executed by, a constable who shall be accompanied by the person applying for the warrant if—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-102-2-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">that person so desires; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-102-2-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the court by whom the warrant is issued does not direct otherwise.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-102-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">A court granting an application for a warrant under this section may direct that the constable concerned may, in executing the warrant, be accompanied by a registered medical practitioner, registered nurse or <span class="LegAddition">registered midwife</span> if he so chooses.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-102-3A"><span class="LegAddition">(3A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">The reference in subsection (3) to a registered midwife is to such a midwife who is also registered in the Specialist Community Public Health Nurses' Part of the register maintained under article 5 of the Nursing and Midwifery Order 2001.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-102-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">An application for a warrant under this section shall be made in the manner and form prescribed by rules of court.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-102-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Where—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-102-5-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">an application for a warrant under this section relates to a particular child; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-102-5-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">it is reasonably practicable to do so,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">the application and any warrant granted on the application shall name the child; and where it does not name him it shall describe him as clearly as possible.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-102-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The enactments are—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-102-6-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">sections 62, 64, 67, <span class="LegAddition">76,</span><span class="LegAddition">79U,</span> 80, 86 and 87;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-102-6-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">paragraph 8(1)(b) and (2)(b) of Schedule 3;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-102-6-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><div class="LegClearPblock"/><h3 class="LegPblock"><span class="LegPblockTitle"> General<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to "><span class="btr"/>U.K.<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h3><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-103"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1ContainerFirst"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">103</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitleFirst"> Offences by bodies corporate.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-103-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">This section applies where any offence under this Act is committed by a body corporate.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-103-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">If the offence is proved to have been committed with the consent or connivance of or to be attributable to any neglect on the part of any director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body corporate, or any person who was purporting to act in any such capacity, he (as well as the body corporate) shall be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-104"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">104</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Regulations and orders.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England, Wales and Scotland"><span class="btr"/>E+W+S<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-104-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any power of the Lord Chancellor <span class="LegAddition">, the Treasury</span> <span class="LegSubstitution">, the Secretary of State or the National Assembly for Wales</span> under this Act to make an order, regulations, or rules, except an order under section <span class="LegAddition">54(2)</span>, 56(4)(a), 57(3), 84 or 97(4) or paragraph 1(1) of Schedule 4, shall be exercisable by statutory instrument.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-104-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any such statutory instrument, except one made under section <span class="LegAddition">4(1B), </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">4ZA(3),</span></span> 17(4), 107 or 108(2) <span class="LegAddition">or one containing regulations which fall within subsection </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(3AA),</span></span> <span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">(3AB),</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> (3B) </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">, (3BA)</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> or (3C)</span>, shall be subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-104-2A"><span class="LegAddition">(2A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">Subsection (2) does not apply to a statutory instrument made solely by the National Assembly for Wales.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-104-3"><span class="LegSubstitution">(3)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">An order under section </span><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegAddition">4(1B) </span></span><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">, 4ZA(3)</span></span></span> <span class="LegSubstitution">. . . shall not be made unless a draft of it has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, each House of Parliament.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-104-3A"><span class="LegSubstitution">(3A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">An order under section 4(1B) </span><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegAddition">, 4ZA(3)</span></span><span class="LegSubstitution"> or 17(4) or regulations which fall within subsection </span><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegAddition">(3AA),</span></span> <span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegAddition">(3AB),</span></span><span class="LegSubstitution"> (3B) </span><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegAddition">, (3BA)</span></span> <span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegAddition">, (3BB)</span></span><span class="LegSubstitution"> or (3C) shall not be made by the Secretary of State unless a draft of the statutory instrument containing the order or regulations has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, each House of Parliament.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-104-3AA"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegAddition">(3AA)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegAddition">Regulations fall within this subsection if they are regulations made in the exercise of the power conferred by section 17ZB(9).</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-104-3AB"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegAddition">(3AB)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegAddition">Regulations fall within this subsection if they are regulations made in the exercise of the power conferred by section 17ZE(5).</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-104-3B"><span class="LegSubstitution">(3B)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">Regulations fall within this subsection if they are the first regulations to be made by the Secretary of State in the exercise of the power conferred by section 23C(5B)(b).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-104-3BA"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegAddition">(3BA)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegAddition">Regulations fall within this subsection if they are regulations made in the exercise of the power conferred by section 31(3C) or 32(9).</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-104-3BB"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegAddition">(3BB)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegSubstitution"><span class="LegAddition">Regulations fall within this subsection if they are regulations made in the exercise of the power conferred by paragraph 3B(4) of Schedule A1.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-104-3C"><span class="LegSubstitution">(3C)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">Regulations fall within this subsection if they are the first regulations to be made by the Secretary of State in the exercise of the power conferred by paragraph 6(2) of Schedule 2.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-104-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any statutory instrument made under this Act may—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-104-4-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">make different provision for different cases;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-104-4-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">provide for exemptions from any of its provisions; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-104-4-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">contain . . . incidental, supplemental and transitional provisions . . . .</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-104A"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No"><span class="LegSubstitution">104A.</span></span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"><span class="LegSubstitution">Regulations made by the Welsh Ministers under section 31A or Part 7</span><span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to "><span class="btr"/>U.K.<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-104A-1"><span class="LegSubstitution">(1)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">Any power of the Welsh Ministers under section 31A or Part 7 to make regulations shall be exercisable by statutory instrument.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-104A-2"><span class="LegSubstitution">(2)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">Any such statutory instrument shall be subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of the National Assembly for Wales.</span></span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-105"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">105</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Interpretation.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England, Wales and Scotland"><span class="btr"/>E+W+S<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-105-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In this Act—</span> </p><ul class="LegTabbedDef LegUnorderedList"><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"> “</span><span class="LegTerm"><span class="LegAddition">activity condition</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” has the meaning given by section 11C;</span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"> “</span><span class="LegTerm"><span class="LegAddition">activity direction</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” has the meaning given by section 11A;</span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-adoption-agency">adoption agency</span>” means a body which may be referred to as an adoption agency by virtue of <span class="LegAddition">section 2 of the Adoption and Children Act 2002</span>;
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">... 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">“<span class="LegTerm" id="term-bank-holiday">bank holiday</span>” means a day which is a bank holiday under the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971;
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition">“care home”—</span> </p><div><div class="LegAlphaList"><div class="LegListItem"><div class="LegLevel4No LegListItemNo">(a)</div><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel4"><span class="LegAddition">has the same meaning as in the Care Standards Act 2000 in respect of a care home in England; and</span> </p></div><div class="LegListItem"><div class="LegLevel4No LegListItemNo">(b)</div><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel4"><span class="LegAddition">means a place in Wales at which a care home service within the meaning of Part 1 of the Regulation and Inspection of Social Care (Wales) Act 2016 is provided wholly or mainly to persons aged 18 or over;”</span> </p></div></div></div></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-care-order">care order</span>” has the meaning given by section 31(11) and also includes any order which by or under any enactment has the effect of, or is deemed to be, a care order for the purposes of this Act; and any reference to a child who is in the care of an authority is a reference to a child who is in their care by virtue of a care order; 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-child">child</span>” means, subject to paragraph 16 of Schedule 1, a person under the age of eighteen; 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"> “</span><span class="LegTerm"><span class="LegAddition">child arrangements order</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” has the meaning given by section 8(1);</span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-child-assessment-order">child assessment order</span>” has the meaning given by section 43(2); 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"> “</span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-child-minder"><span class="LegAddition">child minder</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” has the meaning given by section 71;</span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegSubstitution"> “</span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-child-of-the-family"><span class="LegSubstitution">child of the family</span></span><span class="LegSubstitution">”, in relation to parties to a marriage, or to two people who are civil partners of each other, means— </span> </p><div><div class="LegAlphaList"><div class="LegListItem"><div class="LegLevel4No LegListItemNo">(a)</div><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel4"><span class="LegSubstitution">a child of both of them, and</span> </p></div><div class="LegListItem"><div class="LegLevel4No LegListItemNo">(b)</div><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel4"><span class="LegSubstitution">any other child, other than a child placed with them as foster parents by a local authority or voluntary organisation, who has been treated by both of them as a child of their family</span>;
</p></div></div></div></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition">“children’s home”—</span> </p><div><div class="LegAlphaList"><div class="LegListItem"><div class="LegLevel4No LegListItemNo">(a)</div><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel4"><span class="LegAddition">has the same meaning as it has for the purposes of the Care Standards Act 2000 in respect of a children’s home in England (see section 1 of that Act); and</span> </p></div><div class="LegListItem"><div class="LegLevel4No LegListItemNo">(b)</div><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel4"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">means a place in Wales at which—</span></span> </p><div><div class="LegRomanList"><div class="LegListItem"><div class="LegLevel5No LegListItemNo">(i)</div><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel5"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">a care home service is provided wholly or mainly to children, or</span></span> </p></div><div class="LegListItem"><div class="LegLevel5No LegListItemNo">(ii)</div><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel5"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">a secure accommodation service is provided,</span></span> </p></div></div></div></div></div></div></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">and in this paragraph “care home service” and “secure accommodation service” have the meaning given in Part 1 of the Regulation and Inspection of Social Care (Wales) Act 2016 (anaw 2);</span></span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">...
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-community-home">community home</span>” has the meaning given by section 53; 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">... 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">... 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">... 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-day-care">day care</span>” ... has the same meaning as in section 18; 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-disabled">disabled</span>”, in relation to a child, has the same meaning as in section 17(11); 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">... 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-domestic-premises">domestic premises</span>” has the meaning given by section 71(12); 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition">“dwelling-house” includes—</span> </p><div><div class="LegAlphaList"><div class="LegListItem"><div class="LegLevel4No LegListItemNo">(a)</div><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel4"><span class="LegAddition">any building or part of a building which is occupied as a dwelling;</span> </p></div><div class="LegListItem"><div class="LegLevel4No LegListItemNo">(b)</div><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel4"><span class="LegAddition">any caravan, house-boat or structure which is occupied as a dwelling;</span> </p></div></div></div><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition">and any yard, garden, garage or outhouse belonging to it and occupied with it;</span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"> “</span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-education-functions"><span class="LegAddition">education functions</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” has the meaning given by section 579(1) of the Education Act 1996;</span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-education-supervision-order">education supervision order</span>” has the meaning given in section 36; 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-emergency-protection-order">emergency protection order</span>” means an order under section 44; 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"> “</span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-enforcement-order"><span class="LegAddition">enforcement order</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” has the meaning given by section 11J;</span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-family-assistance-order">family assistance order</span>” has the meaning given in section 16(2); 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-family-proceedings">family proceedings</span>” has the meaning given by section 8(3); 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-functions">functions</span>” includes powers and duties; 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-guardian-of-a-child">guardian of a child</span>” means a guardian (other than a guardian of the estate of a child) appointed in accordance with the provisions of section 5; 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-harm">harm</span>” has the same meaning as in section 31(9) and the question of whether harm is significant shall be determined in accordance with section 31(10); 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">... 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-health-service-hospital">health service hospital</span>” <span class="LegSubstitution"> means a health service hospital within the meaning given by the National Health Service Act 2006 or the National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006</span>; 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-hospital">hospital</span>” ... has the same meaning as in the  Mental Health Act 1983, except that it does not include a special hospital within the meaning of that Act; 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-ill-treatment">ill-treatment</span>” has the same meaning as in section 31(9); 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"> “</span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-income-based-jobseekers-allowance"><span class="LegAddition">income-based jobseeker’s allowance</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” has the same meaning as in the Jobseekers Act 1995;</span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"> “</span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-income-related-employment-and-support-allowance"><span class="LegAddition">income-related employment and support allowance</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” means an income-related allowance under Part 1 of the Welfare Reform Act 2007 (employment and support allowance);</span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegSubstitution">“independent hospital”</span> </p><div><div class="LegAlphaList"><div class="LegListItem"><div class="LegLevel4No LegListItemNo">(a)</div><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel4"><span class="LegSubstitution">in relation to England, means a hospital as defined by section 275 of the National Health Service Act 2006 that is not a health service hospital as defined by that section; and</span> </p></div><div class="LegListItem"><div class="LegLevel4No LegListItemNo">(b)</div><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel4"><span class="LegSubstitution">in relation to Wales, has the same meaning as in the Care Standards Act 2000;</span> </p></div></div></div></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-independent-school">independent school</span>” has the same meaning as in <span class="LegAddition"> the Education Act 1996</span>; 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition">“</span><span class="LegTerm"><span class="LegAddition">integrated care board</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” means a body established under section </span><span class="LegAddition">14Z25</span><span class="LegAddition"> of the National Health Service Act 2006;</span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-local-authority">local authority</span>” means, in relation to England ..., the council of a county, a metropolitan district, a London Borough or the Common Council of the City of London <span class="LegAddition"> in relation to Wales, the council of a county or a county borough</span> and, in relation to Scotland, a local authority within the meaning of section 1(2) of the  Social Work (Scotland) Act 1968; 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegRepeal"><span class="LegSubstitution"> “</span></span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-local-authority-foster-parent"><span class="LegRepeal"><span class="LegSubstitution">local authority foster parent</span></span></span><span class="LegRepeal"><span class="LegSubstitution">” has the meaning given in section 22C(12);</span></span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegSubstitution">“local authority foster parent” means a person authorised as such in accordance with regulations made by virtue of—</span> </p><div><div class="LegAlphaList"><div class="LegListItem"><div class="LegLevel4No LegListItemNo">(a)</div><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel4"><span class="LegSubstitution">paragraph 12F of Schedule 2; or</span> </p></div><div class="LegListItem"><div class="LegLevel4No LegListItemNo">(b)</div><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel4"><span class="LegSubstitution">sections 87 and 93 of the Social Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014 (regulations providing for approval of local authority foster parents);</span> </p></div></div></div></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">... 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"> “</span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-local-health-board"><span class="LegAddition">Local Health Board</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” means a Local Health Board established under section 11 of the National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006;</span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-local-housing-authority">local housing authority</span>” has the same meaning as in the  Housing Act 1985; 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"> “</span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-mental-nursing-home"><span class="LegAddition">mental nursing home</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” has the same meaning as in the </span><span class="LegAddition"> Registered Homes Act 1984;</span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"> “</span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-nursing-home"><span class="LegAddition">nursing home</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” has the same meaning as in the Act of 1984;</span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"> “</span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-officer-of-the-service"><span class="LegAddition">officer of the Service</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” has the same meaning as in the Criminal Justice and Court Services Act 2000;</span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-parental-responsibility">parental responsibility</span>” has the meaning given in section 3; 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-parental-responsibility-agreement">parental responsibility agreement</span>” has the meaning given in <span class="LegAddition"> sections 4(1) </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> , 4ZA(4)</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> and 4A(2)</span>; 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-prescribed">prescribed</span>” means prescribed by regulations made under this Act; 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"> “</span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-private-childrens-home"><span class="LegAddition">private children’s home</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” means a children’s home in respect of which a person is registered under Part II of the Care Standards Act 2000 </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition">or Part 1 of the Regulation and Inspection of Social Care (Wales) Act 2016</span></span><span class="LegAddition"> which is not a community home or a voluntary home;</span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">... 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-privately-fostered-child">privately fostered child</span>” and “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-to-foster-a-child-privately">to foster a child privately</span>” have the same meaning as in section 66; 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-prohibited-steps-order">prohibited steps order</span>” has the meaning given by section 8(1); 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">... 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"> “</span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-registered-childrens-home"><span class="LegAddition">registered children’s home</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” has the same meaning as in section 63;</span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-registered-pupil">registered pupil</span>” has the same meaning as in <span class="LegAddition"> the Education Act 1996</span>; 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-relative">relative</span>”, in relation to a child, means a grandparent, brother, sister, uncle or aunt (whether of the full blood or half blood or <span class="LegSubstitution"> by marriage or civil partnership)</span> or step-parent; 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">... 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"> “</span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-residential-care-home"><span class="LegAddition">residential care home</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” has the same meaning as in the Registered Homes Act 1984 </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegAddition"> and “small home” has the meaning given by section 1(4A) of that Act</span></span><span class="LegAddition">;</span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-responsible-person">responsible person</span>”, in relation to a child who is the subject of a supervision order, has the meaning given in paragraph 1 of Schedule 3; 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-school">school</span>” has the same meaning as in <span class="LegAddition">the Education Act 1996</span> or, in relation to Scotland, in the  Education (Scotland) Act 1980; 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"> “</span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-section-31a-plan"><span class="LegAddition">section 31A plan</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” has the meaning given by section 31A(6);</span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-service">service</span>”, in relation to any provision made under Part III, includes any facility; 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-signed">signed</span>”, in relation to any person, includes the making by that person of his mark; 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-special-educational-needs">special educational needs</span>” has the same meaning as in <span class="LegAddition"> the Education Act 1996</span>; 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"> “</span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-special-guardian"><span class="LegAddition">special guardian</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” and “</span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-special-guardianship-order"><span class="LegAddition">special guardianship order</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” have the meaning given by section 14A;</span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"> “</span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-special-health-authority"><span class="LegAddition">Special Health Authority</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” means a Special Health Authority established under </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution"> section 28 of the National Health Service Act 2006 or section 22 of the National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006,</span></span><span class="LegAddition">;</span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-specific-issue-order">specific issue order</span>” has the meaning given by section 8(1); 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">... 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-supervision-order">supervision order</span>” has the meaning given by section 31(11); 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-supervised-child">supervised child</span>” and “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-supervisor">supervisor</span>”, in relation to a supervision order or an education supervision order, mean respectively the child who is (or is to be) under supervision and the person under whose supervision he is (or is to be) by virtue of the order; 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-upbringing">upbringing</span>”, in relation to any child, includes the care of the child but not his maintenance; 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-voluntary-home">voluntary home</span>” has the meaning given by section 60; 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"> “<span class="LegTerm" id="term-voluntary-organisation">voluntary organisation</span>” means a body (other than a public or local authority) whose activities are not carried on for profit; 
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition"> “</span><span class="LegTerm" id="term-welsh-family-proceedings-officer"><span class="LegAddition">Welsh family proceedings officer</span></span><span class="LegAddition">” has the meaning given by section 35 of the Children Act 2004.</span> </p></li></ul><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-105-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"> References in this Act to a child whose father and mother were, or (as the case may be) were not, married to <span class="LegAddition">, or civil partners of,</span> each other at the time of his birth must be read with section 1 of the  Family Law Reform Act 1987 (which extends the meaning of such references). </span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-105-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-105-4"><span class="LegSubstitution">(4)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">References in this Act to a child who is looked after—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-105-4-a"><span class="LegSubstitution">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">in relation to a child who is looked after by a local authority in England, has the meaning given in section 22; and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-105-4-b"><span class="LegSubstitution">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegSubstitution">in relation to a child who is looked after by a local authority in Wales, has the meaning given in section 74 of the Social Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014 (child or young person looked after by a local authority).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-105-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"> References in this Act to accommodation provided by or on behalf of a local authority are references to accommodation so provided in the exercise of functions <span class="LegAddition"> of that or any other local authority which are social services functions</span> .... </span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-105-5A">(5A)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"> . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . </span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-105-5Bn1"><span class="LegAddition">(5B)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">References in this Act to acting as a child minder and to a child minder shall be construed, in relation to Scotland, in accordance with section 2(17) of the Regulation of Care (Scotland) Act 2001 (asp 8).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-105-5B"><span class="LegAddition">(5B)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">In subsection (5) “social services functions” means—</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-105-5B-a"><span class="LegAddition">(a)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in England, social services functions within the meaning of the Local Authority Social Services Act 1970, and</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-105-5B-b"><span class="LegAddition">(b)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in Wales, social services functions within the meaning of the Social Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014.</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-105-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">In determining the “ordinary residence” of a child for any purpose of this Act, there shall be disregarded any period in which he lives in any place—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-105-6-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">which is a school or other institution;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-105-6-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"> in accordance with the requirements of a supervision order under this Act  ...; </span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-105-6-ba"><span class="LegAddition">(ba)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text"><span class="LegAddition">in accordance with the requirements of a youth rehabilitation order under </span><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">Chapter 1 of Part 9 of the Sentencing Code</span></span><span class="LegAddition">; or</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-105-6-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">while he is being provided with accommodation by or on behalf of a local authority.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-105-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">References in this Act to children who are in need shall be construed in accordance with section 17.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-105-7"><span class="LegAddition">(7A)</span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition">References in this Act to a hospital or accommodation made available or provided pursuant to arrangements made by the Secretary of State under the National Health Service Act 2006 are references to a hospital or accommodation made available or provided pursuant to arrangements so made in the exercise of the public health functions of the Secretary of State (within the meaning of that Act).</span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-105-7B"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">(7B)</span></span></span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"><span class="LegAddition"><span class="LegSubstitution">References in this Act to arrangements made by NHS England or an integrated care board under the National Health Service Act 2006 include references to arrangements so made in the exercise of functions of another person by virtue of any provision of that Act.</span></span></span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-105-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any notice or other document required under this Act to be served on any person may be served on him by being delivered personally to him, or being sent by post to him in a registered letter or by the recorded delivery service at his proper address.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-105-9">(9)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any such notice or other document required to be served on a body corporate or a firm shall be duly served if it is served on the secretary or clerk of that body or a partner of that firm.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-105-10">(10)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text"> For the purposes of this section, and of section 7 of the  Interpretation Act 1978 in its application to this section, the proper address of a person— </span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-105-10-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">in the case of a secretary or clerk of a body corporate, shall be that of the registered or principal office of that body;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-105-10-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">in the case of a partner of a firm, shall be that of the principal office of the firm; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-105-10-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">in any other case, shall be the last known address of the person to be served.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-106"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">106</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Financial provisions.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-106-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-106-1-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">grants made by the Secretary of State under this Act; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-106-1-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">any other expenses incurred by the Secretary of State under this Act,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP2Text">shall be payable out of money provided by Parliament.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-106-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Any sums received by the Secretary of State under section 58, or by way of the repayment of any grant made under section 82(2) or (4) shall be paid into the Consolidated Fund.</span> </p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-107"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">107</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Application to Channel Islands.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to England and Wales"><span class="btr"/>E+W<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegRHS LegP1Text">Her Majesty may by Order in Council direct that any of the provisions of this Act shall extend to any of the Channel Islands with such exceptions and modifications as may be specified in the Order.
</p><a class="LegAnchorID" id="section-108"/><h4 class="LegClearFix LegP1Container"><span class="LegDS LegP1No">108</span><span class="LegDS LegP1GroupTitle"> Short title, commencement extent etc.<span class="LegExtentRestriction" title="Applies to "><span class="btr"/>U.K.<span class="bbl"/><span class="bbr"/></span></span></h4><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-108-1">(1)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">This Act may be cited as the Children Act 1989.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-108-2">(2)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Sections 89 and 96(3) to (7), and paragraph 35 of Schedule 12, shall come into force on the passing of this Act and paragraph 36 of Schedule 12 shall come into force at the end of the period of two months beginning with the day on which this Act is passed but otherwise this Act shall come into force on such date as may be appointed by order made by the Lord Chancellor or the Secretary of State, or by both acting jointly.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-108-3">(3)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">Different dates may be appointed for different provisions of this Act and in relation to different cases.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-108-4">(4)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The minor amendments set out in Schedule 12 shall have effect.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-108-5">(5)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The consequential amendments set out in Schedule 13 shall have effect.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-108-6">(6)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The transitional provisions and savings set out in Schedule 14 shall have effect.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-108-7">(7)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The repeals set out in Schedule 15 shall have effect.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-108-8">(8)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">An order under subsection (2) may make such transitional provisions or savings as appear to the person making the order to be necessary or expedient in connection with the provisions brought into force by the order, including—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-108-8-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">provisions adding to or modifying the provisions of Schedule 14, and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-108-8-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">such adaptations—</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-108-8-b-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">of the provisions brought into force by the order; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-108-8-b-ii">(ii)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">of any provisions of this Act then in force,</span> </p><p class="LegRHS LegP3Text">as appear to him necessary or expedient in consequence of the partial operation of this Act.
</p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-108-9">(9)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The Lord Chancellor may by order make such amendments or repeals, in such enactments as may be specified in the order, as appear to him to be necessary or expedient in consequence of any provision of this Act.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-108-10">(10)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">This Act shall, in its application to the Isles of Scilly, have effect subject to such exceptions, adaptations and modifications as the Secretary of State may by order prescribe.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-108-11">(11)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The following provisions of this Act extend to Scotland—</span> </p><ul class="LegTabbed LegUnorderedList"><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition">section 19;</span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">section 25(8);
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">section 50(13);
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition">Part X;</span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3"><span class="LegAddition">section 80(1)(h) and (i), (2) to (4), (5)(a), (b) and (h) and (6) to (12);</span> </p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">section 88;
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">section 104 (so far as necessary);
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">section 105 (so far as necessary);
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">subsections (1) to (3), (8) and (9) and this subsection;
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">in Schedule 2, paragraph 24;
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">in Schedule 12, paragraphs 1, 7 to 10, 18, 27, 30(a) and 41 to 44;
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">in Schedule 13, paragraphs 18 to 23, 32, 46, 47, 50, 57, 62, 63, 68(a) and (b) and 71;
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">in Schedule 14, paragraphs 1, 33 and 34;
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">in Schedule 15, the entries relating to—
</p></li></ul><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-108-11-a">(a)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the Custody of Children Act 1891;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-108-11-b">(b)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the Nurseries and Child Minders Regulation Act 1948;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-108-11-c">(c)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">section 53(3) of the Children and Young Persons Act 1963;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-108-11-d">(d)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">section 60 of the Health Services and Public Health Act 1968;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-108-11-e">(e)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the Social Work (Scotland) Act 1968;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-108-11-f">(f)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the Adoption (Scotland) Act 1978;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-108-11-g">(g)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the Child Care Act 1980;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-108-11-h">(h)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the Foster Children (Scotland) Act 1984;</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP4Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP4No" id="section-108-11-h-i">(i)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP4Text">the Child Abduction and Custody Act 1985; and</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP3Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP3No" id="section-108-11-j">(j)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP3Text">the Family Law Act 1986.</span> </p><p class="LegClearFix LegP2Container"><span class="LegDS LegLHS LegP2No" id="section-108-12">(12)</span><span class="LegDS LegRHS LegP2Text">The following provisions of this Act extend to Northern Ireland—</span> </p><ul class="LegTabbed LegUnorderedList"><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">section 50;
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">section 101(1)(b), (2) and (5)(a)(i);
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">subsections (1) to (3), (8) and (9) and this subsection;
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">in Schedule 2, paragraph 24;
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">in Schedule 12, paragraphs 7 to 10, 18 and 27;
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">in Schedule 13, paragraphs 21, 22, 46, 47, 57, 62, 63, 68(c) to (e) and 69 to 71;
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">in Schedule 14, paragraphs . . ., 28 to 30 and 38(a); and
</p></li><li><p class="LegListTextStandard LegLevel3">in Schedule 15, the entries relating to the Guardianship of Minors Act 1971, the Children Act 1975, the Child Care Act 1980, and the Family Law Act 1986.
</p></li></ul></div> </div> </body></html>